

<b><!--: </b>if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> The Crying Game


The crying game:


FADE IN:

EXT. CARNIVAL - DAY

A loudspeaker playing Percy Sledge's "When a Man Loves a Woman," as we see a carnival in the distance - with a Ferris Wheel turning round and round.

A black man is by a stall. On his arm is an Irish girl with blond hair. The black man is drunk, and is tossing rings around a bowling pin.

Jody: And that's cricket, hon.

An attendant hands him the teddy bear. It looks ridiculous in his huge hands. He gives it to the girl.

Jody: You want it?

Girl: Sure.

Jody: Doesn't matter if you don't.

He puts his arm around her and drags her on.

Jody: Jody won't be offended. Jody's never offended. What'd you say your name was?

Girl: Jude.

Jody: Jude. Suits you, Jude.

Jude: The teddy bear?

Jody: No, fuck the bear. The name. Jude. And it's June. Jude in June.

He comes to a small canvas tent with a sign on it - TOILET.



2.:



Jody: Gotta piss, Jude.

He holds her hand.

Jody: Don't run off, Jude.

Jude: You don't know me, do you?

Jody walks inside the canvas flap and vanishes from sight. We can still see his hand, holding Jude's. She leans against the canvas, looking bored.

Jody: (inside) What if I did?

Jude: You'd know I wouldn't run off.

She stands there, listening to the sound of him urinate. Her eyes flick around the carnival. They settle on a tall dark- haired man in a dark jacket. He nods.

Jody: Never pissed holding a girl's hand, Jude.

Jude: You didn't?

Jody: And you know what?

Jude: Tell me, Jody

He staggers out, buttoning up.

Jody: It's nice.

He goes to kiss her. She turns her head away.

Jude: Not here.

Jody: Who gives a fuck.

Jude: You never know.



3.:



She pulls him over toward the water.

Jody: I never know nothing.

Jude: People. They could be looking.

Jody follows her, as she walks backward, drawing him on. He moves his hips to a song as Jude leads him over the beach, under a train trestle.

Jude: Come and get me, soldier --

Jody: Whatever you say, Jude...

He sinks down on his knees toward her. She wraps her arms around his neck and kisses him. Jody writhes on top of her, fumbling with his belt. Jude cocks one eye upward. A shadow falls across them.

CLOSE ON JODY, kissing her. A gun is put to his head. He turns around, drunkenly.

Jody: What the fuck --

The gun whacks him across the cheek and he falls sideways.

Jude scrambles to her feet and darts like an animal through a field.

Jody feels his cheek. He can see her blond head vanishing among the fields. He looks up and sees a group of men around him. The tallest of them, Fergus, cocks the gun.

INT. CAR - DAY

A mini, driving down a country road. Two men in the front, three in the back.

On the floor of the car Jody lies, with three pairs of feet on top of him, a black bag over his head and the barrel of a gun dangling close to his face. Fergus holds the gun. He is smoking a cigarette. His movements are slow and somewhat innocent.

Fergus: So what's your name, soldier?



4.:



Jody: Fuck you.

Fergus: Yeah.

EXT. SMALL FARMHOUSE - EVENING.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody pulled through and tied to a chair. Maguire, a small lean man, talks to him through the hood.

Maguire: The situation is simple. You're being held hostage by the Irish Republican Army. They've got one of our senior members under interrogation in Castleraigh. We've informed them that if they don't release him within three days, you'll be shot. You'll be treated as our guest until further developments. Have you anything to say?

Jody is motionless under the black hood.

Fergus: Give him a cup of tea.

Maguire: Do you want a cup of tea?

He still says nothing.

Dissolve.:

All the men are drinking tea. The blond woman comes in with a plate and some food on it.

Fergus: See does he want some.

Jude: Do you want some food?

Jody sits as still as a grave, saying nothing.

Dissolve.:

Late at night -- it is dark. The men are sleeping. Fergus is sitting by a chair, gun in his hand, watching the prisoner. Jude comes in, with a flashlight.



5.:



Fergus: Hey -- what's he like?

Jude: Horny bastard.

Fergus: Did you give him it?

Jude: There are certain things I wouldn't do for my country.

Fergus: Have a look at him.

Jude: Can't.

Fergus: Poke him or something. See if he's still alive.

Jude: He's all right.

Fergus: Hasn't moved for twelve hours. Go on. Have a heart.

She moves over to him. She prods him in the legs with her foot. He doesn't move. Then she lifts the hood ever so slightly, to peer inside. Suddenly the man moves like lightning, jerking his head down so the hood comes off, throwing his body, tied to the chair, over Jude.

Jody: You fucking bitch -- you fucking whore --

He pins her to the ground, his body bent with the chair. He writhes on top of her in a grotesque parody of love. She is screaming and the room is alive, each man awake, grabbing guns, screaming.

Maguire: Turn the fucking thing off --

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus follows Jude out a back door, holding her by the arm.

Fergus: You all right?



6.:



Jude: Fucking animal.

She takes in huge gobs of air.

Fergus: You don't know that.

Jude: Fucking do. I had him all over me.

He touches her face.

Fergus: Tough work, that.

Jude: Someone's got to do it.

She rubs her hand on his chest.

Jude: Nah, it was a breeze. Just thought of you.

She sidles closer, coming on to him.

Jude: And you know what, Fergus? One of you made me want it...

She puts her lips to his neck.

Fergus: Which one?

She doesn't answer. They embrace.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - MORNING.

A hot summer's day. There are tall hedges all around the house. Fergus leads Jody, still bound and hooded, over toward a greenhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Dusty tomato plants and vines everywhere. Broken glass. The sun pouring through. Fergus leads Jody over to a wrought iron chair and sits him in it. He sits opposite, gun on his lap. Fergus takes some sandwiches out of a brown paper bag. He holds one out toward him.



7.:



Fergus: Eat something, would you?

Jody: Can't.

Fergus: What do you mean you can't?

Jody: Can't eat through a canvas bag.

Fergus walks over to him, lifts the hood up so his mouth is revealed, and pushes the sandwich toward his lips. Jody eats, slowly.

Jody: This is a farce, man.

Fergus: How is it a farce?

Jody: I seen your fucking face.

Fergus: So, what do I look like?

Jody: You're the one about five ten with the killer smile and the baby face.

Fergus: Am I?

Jody: Yeah. And the brown eyes.

Fergus pushes the last crumbs of the sandwich toward Jody's mouth.

Jody: You're the handsome one.

Jody eats the last bits.

Jody: Thank you, handsome.

Fergus: My pleasure.



8.:



EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Jude makes her way from the door toward the greenhouse. She is carrying a pot of tea and two cups.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

It is sweltering now in the greenhouse. CLOSE ON JODY'S COWLED HEAD. The hood is drenched with sweat.

Jody: I can't fucking breathe, man. Be a Christian, will you?

Jude comes into view.

Jody: Tell him to take the hood off, honey...

Jude says nothing. Lays the tea on the ground.

Fergus: How did you know it was her?

Jody: I can smell her perfume.

Jude pours out the tea.

Jude: See, if we took the hood off, we'd have to shoot you. As it is, you've got a fifty-fifty chance.

Jody: Thought you liked me, bitch.

Jude: It was fun while it lasted.

Jody: Nice lady.

His breathing becomes labored.

Jody: Please, man, I'm suffocating in here.

Fergus: Can't we take it off?

Jude: Have to check with himself.



9.:



Fergus gives her the gun.

Fergus: You look after him.

Jody's head follows Fergus while he leaves.

Jody: Don't leave me with her, man. She's dangerous...

Jude smiles, holding the gun on her lap.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Fergus enters. Maguire and the others. Maguire has a newspaper, which has a headline regarding the kidnapping.

Maguire: Made the front page. They'll move now, the fuckers.

Fergus: Request permission to take the hood off, Tommy.

Maguire: Why would you do that?

Fergus: The poor whore's suffocating in the heat.

Maguire: So?

Fergus: And anyway, he's seen our faces.

Maguire: You sure?

Fergus: He described me down to a T. Knows what Jude looks like.

Maguire reads the paper.

Fergus: Tommy --



10.:



Maguire: You're his keeper. If you don't mind him seeing you, I don't mind. But you're the only one he looks at.

Fergus: Thanks.

Maguire: It's your decision.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Jude, drinking tea, looking at Jody sweating. Fergus enters. He puts his arm casually around her.

Fergus: Leave us, Judie.

Jude: My pleasure.

She goes. Fergus walks to Jody and slowly takes the hood off. Jody looks up at him, his face bathed in sweat. He breathes in mighty gulps of air. He smiles.

Jody: Thank you, soldier.

Fergus smiles.:

Jody: Never thought fresh air would taste this good.

Fergus pours out a cup of tea and brings it to his lips.

Jody: Now, if you took the ropes off, I'd be able to feed myself.

Fergus: No fucking way.

Jody: Only joking.

Fergus drinks.:

Jody: You know, I was wrong about one thing.



11.:



Fergus: What's that?

Jody: Five ten. Brown eyes. But you're no pinup.

Fergus: No?

Jody: Nope. Not handsome at all.

Fergus: You trying to hurt my feelings?

Jody: No. It's the truth.

Fergus: Well, I could say the same about you.

Jody: Could you?

Fergus: But I won't. We're more polite around these parts.

Jody: So I've noticed.

Fergus looks at him. Jody isn't smiling anymore. Fergus goes back to his seat and drinks his tea. He fingers the gun on his lap.

Jody: Hey --

Fergus: What is it now?

Jody: You're going to have to do it, aren't you?

Fergus: Do what?

Jody: Kill me.



12.:



Fergus: What makes you think that?

Jody: They're going to let that guy die. And you're going to kill me.

Fergus: They won't let him die.

Jody: You want to bet?

Fergus: I'm not a gambling man.

Jody: And even if he doesn't die -- you can't just let me loose.

Fergus: Why can't we?

Jody: Not in your nature.

Fergus: What do you know about my nature?

Jody: I'm talking about your people, not you.

Fergus: What the fuck do you know about my people?

Jody: Only that you're all tough undeluded motherfuckers. And that it's not in your nature to let me go.

Fergus: Shut the fuck up, would you?

Jody: And you know the funny thing?

Fergus: No, what's the funny thing?

Jody: I didn't even fancy her.



13.:



Fergus: Didn't look like that to me...

Jody: She's not my type.

He looks at Fergus.

Jody: C'mere.

Fergus: No.

Jody: Ah, c'mere. I want to show you something.

Fergus: What?

Jody: My inside pocket.

Fergus holds the gun to his face. He fishes inside Jody's inside pocket.

Jody: Take out the wallet.

Fergus's hand emerges with a wallet.

Jody: Open it.

CLOSE ON THE WALLET. Credit cards, army identification photograph.

Jody: Inside. There's a picture.

Fergus takes out a picture. It is of Jody, in cricket whites, smiling, holding a bat. Fergus smiles.

Jody: No, not that one. There's another.

Fergus takes out another picture of Jody and of a beautiful black woman, smiling.

Jody: Now she's my type.



14.:



Fergus: She'd be anyone's type.

Jody: Don't you think of it, fucker.

Fergus: Why not?

Jody: She's mine. Anyway, she wouldn't suit you.

Fergus: No?

Jody: Absolutely not.

Fergus: She your wife?

Jody: Suppose you could say that.

Jody chuckles.:

Fergus: You make a nice couple.

Jody: Don't I know it.

Fergus: So what were you fucking around for, then?

Jody: You fuckers set me up. That bitch --

Fergus: She's a friend of mine

Jody: Okay. That nice lady. Meets me in a bar. I'm saying what the fuck am I doing here anyway. She buys me a drink. She holds my hand. I'm looking at her saying I don't like you, bitch. But what the fuck. Maybe I'll get to understand.

Fergus: What?



15.:



Jody: What the fuck am I doing here.

Fergus: What the fuck were you doing here?

Jody: I got sent.

Fergus: You could have said no.

Jody: Can't. Once I signed up.

Fergus: Why did you sign up?

Jody: It was a job. So I get sent to the only place in the world they call you nigger to your face.

Fergus: Shouldn't take it personally.

Jody: (He imitates a Belfast accent) "Go back to your banana tree, nigger." No use telling them I came from Tottenham.

Fergus: And you play cricket?.

Jody: Best game in the world.

Fergus: Ever see hurling?

Jody: That game where a bunch of paddies whack sticks at each other?

Fergus: Best game in the world.

Jody: Never.

Fergus: The fastest.



16.:



Jody: Well, in Antigua cricket's the black man's game. The kids play it from the age of two. My daddy had me throwing googlies from the age of five. Then we moved to Tottenham and it was something different.

Fergus: How different?

Jody: Toffs' game there. But not at home.     .

Fergus looks at him.

Jody: So when you come to shoot me, Paddy, remember, you're getting rid of a shit- hot bowler.

Fergus: I'll bear that in mind.

He keeps looking at him.

Fergus: And by the way, it's not Paddy. It's Fergus.

Jody smiles.:

Jody: Nice to meet you, Fergus.

Fergus: My pleasure, Jody

EXT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus leads Jody outside, holding the gun against him.

Fergus: Take it easy, now. Just go slow. Down by that tree.

Jody: Tree.

He walks toward it, breathing heavily.

Jody: You've got to loosen my hands.



17.:



Fergus: Can't.

Jody: Well then, you're going to have to take my dick out for me, aren t you?

Fergus, in the dark, stands motionless, looking at him.

Jody: Come on, man, I'm going to wet my pants!

Fergus turns him around and unzips his fly.

Jody: Take the fucker out, man, I'm dying --

Fergus takes Jody's penis out.

Jody takes two steps toward the wall.

Jody: I gotta lean forward or I'll dribble all over myself. Will you hold my hands for me.

Fergus holds his hands from behind, so Jody can lean forward. Jody now pisses with immense relief

Jody: Now, that was worth waiting for.

Fergus: Hurry up, would you?

Jody: These things take time, Fergus.

He shakes his body.

Jody: It's amazing how these small details take on such importance...

He steps back.:

Jody: Now put it back in.

Fergus: Give us a break.



18.:



Jody: I can't do it! It's only a piece of meat. For fuck's sake, it's got no major diseases.

Fergus puts Jody's penis back in his pants and zips him up.

Jody: Thank you. I had a case of the clap two years ago. Crabs in Ulster. But all in all it's served me well.

Fergus: Shut up, would you?

Jody: I'm sorry. Didn't mean to offend you, Fergus.

Fergus leads him hack toward the greenhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus leads Jody back to his chair.

Jody: Fergus?

Fergus: Yeah?

Jody: Thanks. I know that wasn't easy for you.

He begins to laugh.

Fergus: The pleasure was all mine.

Fergus begins to laugh, without knowing why.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Maguire, walking out of the house, woken by the sound of laughter.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody, still laughing. Suddenly the hood is slammed back over his head.

Maguire, standing there in the dark, looking at Fergus.



19.:



Maguire: What the fuck is this?

Fergus: It's nothing. He's just got a sense of humor, that's all.

Maguire: You're on duty. Keep your fucking mouth shut. Go in and get some sleep.

Fergus gets up slowly, walks toward the door.

Jody: Yeah. Get some sleep.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus, walking toward the house. He looks back and sees the figures of Maguire and Jody in the dark, in absolute silence.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus sleeping.:

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody sleeping. Maguire sitting with an Armalite in his hands, watching him.

EXT. FARMHOUSE AND FIELDS - DAY

The sun coming up over the low hills around the farmhouse.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Fergus enters, with a tray and some breakfast. Maguire is sitting where he sat before, stock-still.

Fergus: Did he talk?

Maguire shakes his head.

Fergus: Didn't make you laugh?

Maguire shakes his head.

Fergus: Here. Have some breakfast.

He hands Maguire a plate. Jody stirs.



20.:



Jody: Good morning, Fergus?

Maguire looks hard at him.

Maguire: So he knows your name?

Fergus: I told him.

Maguire: Are you all there?

He rises, and drags Fergus out the door.

Fergus: Back in a minute, Jody

EXT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Maguire: You'll have minimal contact with the prisoner, do you hear me?

Fergus: Yes.

Maguire: And do you know why?

Fergus: Why?

Maguire: Because tomorrow we might have to shoot him, that's why.

Maguire goes back to the house.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Jody sitting with the hood on again. Fergus enters.

Jody: They giving you trouble, Fergus?

Fergus says nothing. He takes a plate and brings it toward Jody



21.:



Jody: It happens. Y'see, there's two kinds of people. Those who give and those who take.

Fergus lifts up Jody's hood to expose his mouth and begins to feed him.

Jody: Ah, take the thing off, man.

Fergus says nothing and keeps feeding him.

Jody: It's okay. I understand. Don't mind if I prattle on, do you?

Fergus shakes his head and says nothing.

Jody: I will take it by your silence that you don't.

He eats. Fergus feeds himself, then feeds more to Jody.

Jody: Two types, Fergus. The scorpion and the frog. Ever heard of them?

Fergus says nothing.:

Jody: Scorpion wants to cross a river, but he can't swim. Goes to the frog, who can, and asks for a ride. Frog says, "If I give you a ride on my back, you'll go and sting me." Scorpion replies, "It would not be in my interest to sting you since as I'll be on your back we both would drown." Frog thinks about this logic for a while and accepts the deal. Takes the scorpion on his back. Braves the waters. Halfway over feels a burning spear in his side and realizes the scorpion has stung him after all. And as they both sink beneath the waves the frog cries out, "Why did you sting me, Mr. Scorpion, for now we both will drown?" Scorpion replies, "I can't help it, it's in my nature."

Jody chuckles under his hood.



22.:



Fergus: So what's that supposed to mean?

Jody: Means what it says. The scorpion does what is in his nature. Take off the hood, man.

Fergus: Why?

Jody: 'Cause you're kind. It's in your nature.

Fergus walks toward him and pulls off the hood. Jody smiles up at him.

Jody: See? I was right about you.

Fergus: Don't be so sure.

Jody: Jody's always right.

INT. GREENHOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON.

Both men dozing in the heat.

Jody: Where would you most like to be now, man?

Fergus: Doesn't matter where.

Jody: Come on, man. If this shit was all over.

Fergus: Having a pint in the Rock.

Jody: You lack imagination, Fergus. Think of something more alluring.

Fergus: Like what?

Jody: Like having a pint in the Metro --

Fergus laughs.:



23.:



Fergus: Having two pints in the Rock.

Jody: Having a pint in the Metro, and Dil's having a margarita.

Fergus: Who's Dil?

Jody: My special friend.

Fergus: Oh, yeah.

Jody: We got simple tastes, you and me.

Fergus: The best.

Jody: But you fellas never get a break, do you?

Fergus: Do you?

Jody: Oh, yes. We do a tour of duty and we're finished. But you guys are never finished, are you?

Fergus: We don't look on it like that.

Jody: I've often wondered how you do it.

Fergus: Depends on what you believe in.

Jody: What do you believe in?

Fergus: That you guys shouldn't be here.

Jody: It's as simple as that?

Fergus: Yes.



24.:



Jude enters.:

Jude: Put that thing back on him, Fergus.

Fergus: He's hot.

Jude: Doesn't matter if he's hot. Just cover the fucker up.

Jody: Have you no feelings, woman?

Jude: You shut your face --

She pulls the hood down over him.

Jude: You're heading for trouble, Fergus --

Jody: He's a good soldier, Jude.

She whacks him with a pistol.

Jude: I said shut the fuck up --

Jody: He believes in the future --

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Jody, sitting in the hood. Fergus lifts it a bit; Jody's mouth, with blood now in his lips.

Fergus: Is it bad?

Jody: No. Not bad. Women are trouble, you know that, Fergus?

Fergus: I didn't.

Jody: Some kinds of women are...



25.:



Fergus: She can't help it.

Jody: Dil wasn't trouble. No trouble at all.

Fergus: You liked her?

Jody: Present tense, please. Love her. Whatever she is. I'm thinking of her now, Fergus. Will you think of her too?

Fergus: Don't know her.

Jody: Want you to do something, Fergus.

Fergus: What?

Jody: If they kill me --

Fergus: Don't think that way.

Jody: But they will. As sure as night follows day. They have to. I want you to find her out. Tell her I was thinking of her.

Fergus is moved. He can't reply.

Jody: See if she's all right.

Fergus: I don't know her.

Jody: Take her picture. C'mere.

Fergus walks toward him.

Jody: Take it. In the inside pocket.

Their faces, close to each other as Fergus searches out her picture.



26.:



Jody: Take the whole lot. I won't need it.

Fergus: I told you not to talk that way --

Jody: Go to Millie's Hair Salon in Spitalfields. Take her to the Metro for a margarita. Don't have to tell her who you are. Just tell her Jody was thinking --

Fergus: Stop it --

The door opens. Maguire is there, with another.

Maguire: Volunteer?

Fergus turns toward him.

Maguire: We need you inside.

Fergus walks toward Maguire and the other man walks forward, takes his seat. Fergus, unseen by Maguire, puts the wallet in his pocket.

INT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT.

Maguire, Jude, Fergus, and the others.

Maguire: We've had word. They've used every trick in the book on him. He's starting to talk. You're going to have to do it in the morning.

Maguire lights a cigarette. Fergus looks at him and nods.

Maguire: You OK about that?

Fergus: I'm a volunteer, am n't I?

Maguire: Good. I was beginning to have my doubts about you for the last few days.

Jude: Not the only one --



27.:



Maguire: Shut up, Jude. You best get some sleep tonight, Fergus.

Fergus: Peter.

Maguire: What?

Fergus: Request permission to guard the prisoner tonight --

Jude: You're crazy. Don't let him, Peter.

Maguire: Shut the fuck up, Jude.

He turns back to Fergus. He puts his arm on Fergus's shoulder.

Maguire: Why do you want to do that for?

Fergus: Would make me feel better about it.

Maguire: You sure about that?

Fergus: I'm sure.

Maguire: Okay. You're a good man, Fergus.

Fergus leaves.:

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT.

Fergus takes his place in the chair beside Jody.

Jody begins to laugh under the hood. It turns into the sound of crying.

Fergus: Don't.

Jody: I'm sorry.



28.:



The crying stops.:

Jody: Help me.

Fergus: How can I?

Jody: I don't know. Just help me. Give me a cigarette.

Fergus takes out a cigarette, lights it, and lifts up Jody's hood so he can smoke.

Jody: Don't even smoke, you know that? It just seemed the right thing to do.

Fergus watches him puff the cigarette, the hood just above his lips. Jody coughs, but keeps the cigarette in his lips. Fergus gently takes the cigarette from his mouth.

Fergus: Go to sleep now.

Jody: I don't want to sleep. Tell me something.

Fergus: What?

Jody: A story.

Fergus: Like the one about the frog?

Jody: And the scorpion. No. Tell me anything.

Fergus: When I was a child...

Jody: Yeah?

Fergus: I thought as a child. But when I became a man I put away childish things...

Jody: What does that mean?



29.:



Fergus: Nothing.

Jody: Tell me something, anything.

Fergus is silent; his eyes wet.

Jody: Not a lot of use, are you, Fergus?

Fergus: Me? No, I'm not good for much...

EXT. FIELDS - MORNING.

The farmhouse covered in mist. The sun coming through it.

EXT. GREENHOUSE - MORNING.

Maguire opens the door to the greenhouse and clicks the chamber of his gun. Fergus has a gun in his hand. He checks the chamber.

Fergus takes Jody, whose hands are still tied behind his back, by the elbow.

Fergus: Stand up, now --

Jody rises. Fergus leads him through the door, past Maguire.

Maguire: I wish to say on behalf of the Irish Republican Army --

Fergus turns with sudden fierceness.

Fergus: Leave him be --

He pulls Jody through the fields.

EXT. TREES - MORNING.

Fergus pushing Jody through a copse of trees, the gun at his back.

Jody: Take the hood off, Fergus --

Fergus: No.



30.:



Jody: I want to see a bit. Please, please. Don't make me die like an animal.

Fergus pulls the hood off. Jody looks around him. He has a cut lip where Jude struck him.

Fergus prods him on with the gun. Jody stumbles forward. Fergus is all cold and businesslike.

Jody: I'm glad you're doing it, do you know that, Fergus?

Fergus: Why?

Jody: Cause you're my friend. And I want you to go to the Metro --

Fergus: Stop that talk now --

Jody: Hurling's a fast game, isn't it, Fergus?

Fergus: The fastest.

Jody: Faster than cricket?

Fergus: Cricket's in the halfpenny place.

Jody: So if I ran now, there's no way I'd beat you, is there?

Fergus: You won't run.

Jody: But if I did... you wouldn't shoot a brother in the back --

Jody suddenly sprints, and, loosening the ties on his hands, then freeing them, he is off like a hare. Fergus screams in fury after him.

Fergus: JODY!!!



31.:



Fergus aims, then changes his mind and runs.

Fergus: You stupid bastard --

Jody: What you say, faster?

Fergus: I said you bastard -- stop --

Jody: Got to catch me first --

Fergus gains on him -- stretches his arm out -- but Jody sprints ahead again -- as if he has been playing with him. He laughs in exhilaration. Fergus pants behind him, wheezing, almost laughing.

Jody: Used to run the mile, you know -- four times round the cricket pitch -- what was that game called?

Fergus: Hurling --

Jody: What?

Fergus: Hurling --

Jody runs, whipping through the trees -- always ahead of him.

Jody: Come on, Fergie -- you can do it -- a bit more wind --

Fergus grabs his shoulder and Jody shrugs it off, gaining on him again.

Jody: Bit of fun, Fergus, eh?

And suddenly the trees give way. Jody turns, laughing, to Fergus.

Jody: Told you I was fast --

Fergus is panting, pointing the gun at Jody



32.:



Jody: Don't do it.

And suddenly a Saracen tank whips around the corner, hits Jody with the full of its fender. His body flies in the air and bounces forward as another tank tries to grind to a halt and the huge wheels grind over him.

Fergus, screaming, "No-!" He almost moves forward, then sees soldiers spilling from the tank around the body. Fergus turns and runs.

EXT. TREES - DAY

Fergus whipping through the trees, his body crouched low as he runs.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Tinker sitting in the greenhouse. A helicopter screams into view through the panes and automatic fire comes from it, shattering every pane in seconds and tearing Tinker to bits.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Bullets whipping through every window, taking chunks from the masonry, tearing the walls apart. Maguire, Jude, and the others on the floor, scrambling for weapons.

EXT. TREES - DAY

Fergus, hearing the gunfire, runs through overhanging branches till eventually he is hidden from sight.

EXT. CARNIVAL ON THE MONAGHAN BORDER - DAWN.

A forlorn-looking building over nondescript fields.

An old man wheels a bicycle slowly toward it; a rusty car appears; and Fergus gets out of it.

Tommy: Fergus!

Fergus: You're back in the pink, Tommy? How're you keeping?

INT. CARAVAN - DAY

The old man pouring whiskey into a teacup.



33.:



Tommy: You'll notice I've asked you nothing.

Fergus: That's wise, Tommy.

Tommy: All right, then. I like to be wise.

He pours Fergus more whiskey.

Tommy: So what do you need, Fergus?

Fergus: Need to go across the water.

Tommy: Do you now.

Fergus: Need to lose myself awhile.

Tommy: Aha.

He looks at Fergus and lights a cigarette.

He puffs.:

Tommy: There's a man I know ships cattle to London.

EXT. DUBLIN BAY - EVENING.

The ferry, churning into the sunset.

FADE TO BLACK.

INT. BUILDING SITE - DAY

FADE UP into an elegant, empty Georgian room, covered in clouds of dust. A figure among the clouds of dust, hacking at a wall with a sledgehammer. It is Fergus, dressed in laborer's overalls, covered in dust. He is knocking the bricks from an outer wall. He works furiously and relentlessly, like a machine.

We see the wall, with the hammer striking it. One brick falls away, then another. Daylight pours through the clouds of dust and the growing hole.



34.:



Fergus's face, as he works.

The hole. More bricks falling away. Through the clouds of dust and the streams of daylight we now see a patch of green.

Fergus's face, working. His rhythm slows.

The hole. More bricks fall away. Then the hammer stops. The dust begins to clear.

His face.:

The jagged hole. The dust drifts across it, revealing a cricket pitch, with tiny sticklike figures running on the green.

EXT. HOSTEL - DAY

Fergus, returning from work, crosses the street, and enters through a white door.

INT. HOSTEL - DAY

Fergus dressing. He puts on a cheap suit, like any country boy in a big city. He takes Jody's wallet from the trousers of his overalls. He flips it open, sees the picture of the soldier and Dil. He puts it in the pocket of his suit.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Fergus walking down a street looking for an address. Some distance down the street is a sign -- MILLIE'S UNISEX HAIR SALON.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Fergus, standing as the crowds go by him, looking in the window. He has the picture in his hand. We see Dil from his point of view, then Fergus walks inside.

INT. HAIR SALON - DAY

Fergus enters. The door gives a loud ping.

A girl: We're closing. I'll see you tomorrow, Dil

She leaves the salon.

Dil: You want something in particular?



35.:



Fergus: Just a bit of a trim...

Dil checks her watch and stubs out a cigarette.

Dil: Come on...

She gestures toward a chair. Fergus sits down. She comes toward him and fiddles with his hair.

She pushes his head back into a basin behind him. She begins to knead his hair in hot water and shampoo.

Dil: Someone recommend you?

Fergus: In a way.

Dil: Who?

Fergus: Guy I work with.

Dil: What's his name?

Fergus can't think of an answer. The hands with the purple nails run over his scalp.

Fergus: Doesn't the water get to your nails?

Dil: What's it to you?

Fergus: Nothing.

Fergus, sitting up. She begins to cut.

Dil: You American?

Fergus: No.

Dil: Not English.



36.:



Fergus: No.

Dil: Scottish?

Fergus: How'd you guess?

Dil: The accent, I suppose.

Fergus: And what's it like?

Dil: Like treacle.

She imitates his accent saying it. Fergus laughs.

Dil: Nice laugh.

Dil raises Fergus's head up, with his new-cut hair and holds a mirror up behind his head so he can see the back. He looks like a young London stockbroker. The hair salon around them is empty.

Dil: That should make her happy.

Fergus: Who's she?

Dil: Don't know. Who is she?

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus emerges from the shop. He takes one last look through the window where Dil is taking off her smock, touching up her hair, etc. It is as if she has forgotten all about him. He walks off through the crowds and then ducks into a doorway.

The doorway of the shop. Dil comes out, dressed in a pair of high heels, a very short skirt, different, more raunchy clothes on her than we saw inside. She locks the glass door and walks down the street, across the road, and into a pub called the Metro. Fergus follows.



37.:



INT. METRO - EVENING.

Half full, with an after-work crowd. Dil makes her way through it.

Barman: Hi, Dil

Dil: Hiya, hon.

She sits down at the bar. Fergus comes toward the bar and takes a seat.

Barman: What'll it be?

Fergus: A bottle of Guinness.

Dil, looking at Fergus.

Dil: See that, Col?

Col: See what, Dil?

Dil: He gave me a look.

Col: Did he?

Fergus blushes. He buries himself in his drink.

Dil: Just cut his hair, you know.

Col: Yeah?

Dil: What you think?

Col: Nice.

Fergus throws his eyes toward her again. She has her face turned away, but sees him in the mirror.

Dil: There, he did it again.



38.:



Col: Saw that one.

Dil: What would you call it?

Col: Now, that was a look.

She eyes Fergus in the mirror.

Dil: Ask him to ask me what I'm drinking.

The barman, with infinite weariness, approaches Fergus.

Col: She wants to know do you want to know what she's drinking.

Fergus is about to talk when she pipes up.

Dil: A margarita.

The barman mixes it. She stares at the mirror, staring at Fergus, who is trying to avoid her eyes. The barman hands her the drink.

Dil: Now he can look.... Ask him does he like his hair, Col.

Col: She wants to know, sir, do you like your hair.

Fergus: Tell her I'm very happy with it.

Dil: He's Scottish, Col.

Col: Scottish?

Fergus: Yeah.

Dil: What'd he say, Col?



39.:



Col: He agreed that he was.

Dil: What do you think his name is?

Col: I've no thoughts on the subject.

Fergus: Jimmy.

Dil: Jimmy?

Col: That's what he said. Jimmy.

Dil: Hi, Jimmy.

Fergus: Hiya, Dil

A burly man sits down beside her. He puts his hand on her knee.

Man: Sing the song, Dil --

She slaps the hand away.

Dil: Fuck off, Dave.

Dave: C'mon, babe! You know what I like... Easy!

She turns back to Fergus and finds his seat empty.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

Fergus, standing across the road from the pub. He is sweating. Dil comes out of the pub. She looks this way and that, as if searching for Fergus. Fergus stands back into a shadow.

Dave, the burly man, comes out. He grabs her by the elbow. She shrugs him off. She walks off. Dave follows, grabs her by the elbow again. The sense of an old argument. Dave suddenly strikes her across the face with his open palm.



40.:


She leans her head against a wall. Dave then puts his arms around her, consoles her.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

Dave walking, holding Dil by the arm. The street is dilapidated, full of squats. They stop outside a door. Dil opens the door with a key from her purse and they both walk inside.

Fergus stands there, observing.

A light comes on in an upstairs room. Dil enters; we see her shadow in silhouette behind the curtain and the shadow of Dave coming in behind her. He begins to remove her blouse. She stands absolutely still as he does so.

Fergus backs away, then walks off.

INT. HOSTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus, in bed. Fade to black as we see Jody as a bowler, running in slow motion, toward the camera. He releases the ball; we see Fergus in bed, breathing heavily.

INT. SITE - NEXT DAY

Fergus takes a break and watches the batsman hit a ball. He imitates the batsman's motion with his sledgehammer. Then a voice interrupts him.

Deveroux: So Pat's a cricket fan, eh?

Fergus turns. We see Tristram Deveroux, a young Sloane type in a three-piece suit, whose house it is. Beside him is Franknum, the cockney foreman.

Fergus: It's not Pat. It's Jim.

Deveroux: Jim, Pat, Mick, what the fuck. Long as you remember you're not at Lords.

Fergus resumes work.:

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

It is now crowded with people, black, white, punky and street chic, a lot of leather All the women are heavily made-up. Someone is singing from the tiny stage and rows of cheap colored bulbs are flashing around it.



41.:



From the way Fergus walks through, it is obvious he has never been here at night. He seems most out of place in his cheap suit, making his way through the crowd to the bar.

At the bar.:

Fergus looks through the odd crowd, but can't find Dil. Col, the barman, sees him and smiles.

Col: So can we consider you a regular, sir?

Fergus: Is that good or bad?

Col: Well, you get to say, The usual, Col. Things like that.

Col pushes a colored cocktail with one of those Japanese umbrellas toward him.

Col: So let's call this the usual.

Fergus: Thanks.

Fergus reaches for his wallet to pay, but Col interrupts.

Col: No, no. It's on me.

Fergus tries to pretend he's familiar with the drink, and by implication, whatever are the norms of the place. He lifts the glass to his mouth, but the umbrella keeps getting in the way.

Col: Take it out, if you want.

Fergus takes out the umbrella. He holds it in one hand and drinks with the other.

Col: You came to see her, didn't you?

Fergus shrugs. He takes out a cigarette. A guy in leather to his left smiles at him.

Col: Something I should tell you. She's --



42.:



Fergus: She's what?

The barman looks up toward the stage.

Col: She's on.

The jukebox.:

A hand presses a button. The needle selects a disk. A song by Dave Berry, "The Crying Game."

At the bar.:

Fergus looks up. Close-up of Dil's hand, as music begins, making movements to the music. We see Dil, standing on a stage, swaying slightly. She seems a little drunk. She mimes to the song. She mouths the words so perfectly and the voice on the song is so feminine that there is no way of knowing who is doing the singing. She does all sorts of strange movements, as if she is drawing moonbeams with her hands.

The crowd seems to know this act. They cheer, whether out of approval or derision we can't be sure.

Fergus watching.:

Dil singing, noticing him. She comes to the end of the song. The crowd cheers.

Fergus, watching her make her way through the crowded bar, toward him.

Dil: He's still looking, Col.

Col: Persistent.

Dil: Good thing in a man.

Col: An excellent quality.

Dil: Maybe he wants something.

Col: I would expect he does.



43.:



Dil: Ask him.

Col: Ask him yourself.

She looks at Fergus directly, sits down next to him.

Dil: So tell me.

Fergus says nothing. He shrugs.

Dil: Everybody wants something.

Fergus: Not me.

Dil: Not you. How quaint. How old-fashioned and quaint. Isn't it, Col?

Col shrugs.:

Dil: You old-fashioned?

Fergus: Must be.

The burly man comes up to her.

Man: Got the money, Dil?

Dil: Fuck off, Dave.

Dave: You fucking promised.

Dil: Did I?

Dave: You fucking did.

He suddenly jerks her roughly off the stool, spilling her drink.

Dave: Didn't you? Well, come on!



44.:



He drags her through the crowd. In the mirror, Fergus watches them go. The barman eyes him.

Col: It takes all types.

Fergus: So who's he?

Col: He's what she should run a mile from.

Fergus: Then why doesn't she?

Col: Who knows the secrets of the human heart.

Fergus suddenly stands and makes his way to the door.

EXT. PUB - NIGHT.

Fergus comes out. A black bouncer is there, but there is no sign of Dil. He walks a few yards and hears voices down an alley. He looks up it.

P0v - alley.:

We see Dil pushing Dave away. He grabs her, turns her roughly.

Dave: Don't be like that --

Dil: You heard me --

She beats his arms away. Money falls on the ground. She staggers away from him. He picks up the money, then runs after her.

Dave: Got very fucking grand, haven't we --

He tries to pull her back.

Dave: Talk to me, you stupid bitch --

They both bump into Fergus, who just stands there and doesn't move an inch. She smiles.



45.:



Dil: Hi.

Fergus: Hi. You forgot your bag.

He holds it up to show her.

Dil: Thank you.

Dave: Who the fuck is he?

Dil: Jimmy.

Dave: It's him, isn't it?

Dil: Maybe.

Dave eyes Fergus. Fergus grabs his wrists and upends him on the ground.

Dil: See, they get the wrong idea.

Dave: (from the ground) Cunt.

Fergus puts his foot on Dave's neck.

Fergus: What was that?

Dil: They all get the wrong idea.

Dave: Cunt. Scrag-eyed dyke cunt.

Dil: Charming.

Dave grabs for her ankle. She kicks his hand away. Fergus presses down his foot. He looks to Dil.

Fergus: What'll I do?



46.:



Dil: Break his neck.

Fergus presses his foot.

Dil: No, don't.

She bends low to Dave.

Dil: He's going to take his foot off slowly, David. Then you're to go home, like a good boy. You hear me?

Dave: Cunt.

But his voice is softer. Fergus removes his foot. Dil grabs his arm.

Dil: Come on, honey.

She draws him away.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

They walk out of the alley.

Fergus: You all right?

Dil: Yes, thank you.

Fergus: What was that all about?

Dil: He wants me to perform for him.

Fergus: Perform?

Dil: You know.

Fergus: You on the game?

Dil: God no. I'm a hairdresser.



47.:



Fergus looks back. Dave is rising.

Fergus: He's getting up.

Dil: You can't leave me then, can you?

EXT. STAIRCASE OUTSIDE DIL'S FLAT

Fergus and Dil climb slowly upstairs.

Dil: You want me to ask you in, right?

Fergus: No, I didn't --

Dil: But I'm not cheap, you know that? Loud, but never cheap.

There is a movement lower down the staircase. We see Dave, holding his neck.

Dave: Fucking dumb dyke carrot cunt.

Dil leans close to Fergus.

Dil: If you kissed me, it would really get his goat.

She tilts up her face. Fergus kisses her, tenderly.

Dil: Now, if you asked me to meet you tomorrow, it would really drive him insane.

Fergus: Where?

Dil: Half-five. At Millie's.

She goes in and closes the door. Fergus stands and looks down at Dave, who turns to leave.

EXT. HAIR SALON - DAY

Dil walks out of the salon, smiling, and walks toward Fergus.



48.:



Dil: Give me that look again.

Fergus: What look?

Dil: The one you gave me in the Metro.

Fergus takes a bunch of flowers from behind his back. She holds them, with theatrical feeling.

Dil: Darling, you shouldn't have.

She laughs and leans toward him and kisses him in a classically old-fashioned way. The girls inside the salon pull back a curtain, and they all clap.

Fergus: What's that about?

Dil: They're jealous.

Fergus: Why?

Dil: I wonder.

She takes his arm and walks off with him.

INT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

Fergus and Dil looking at their menus. A waiter places drinks on their table, then leaves.

Dil: Now's the time you're meant to do something, isn't it?

Fergus: Like what?

Dil: Make a pass or something. Isn't that the way it goes?

Fergus: Must be.



49.:



EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

They are walking in an alleyway toward her house.

Dil: You got a special friend, Jimmy?

Fergus: How special?

Dil: You want one?

And suddenly a car drives very fast toward them, headlights on. Fergus pulls her into a doorway to avoid it.

Fergus: Jesus Christ!

Dil: Jesus.

The car continues down the road, stops, and then screeches off.

Fergus: That Dave?

Dil: The things a girl has to put up with.

She looks down toward where the car has pulled away.

Dil: I'm frightened, Jimmy. That's not like him.

EXT. DIL'S FLAT.

A car pulls up behind Dil and Fergus.

Dil: Piss off, Dave!

Fergus: Tough guy, huh? Are you going to be all right on your own?

Dil: I'm not on my own, am I?

She touches his cheek.



50.:



Dil: Come on up, would you?

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Dil comes in in the darkness. Fergus stands like a shadow in the doorway. The light comes on; she takes off her raincoat.

Dil: Won't hurt you to come in.

Fergus enters slowly. He looks around the room; there is an exaggerated femininity about everything in it.

Dil: Would you like a drink?

Fergus: Yes, please.

Dil: What'll it be?

Fergus: Whiskey.

She goes into a small kitchen. Fergus looks at the mantelpiece and sees a picture of Jody. The camera tracks into the soldier's smiling face. Then into Fergus's face. His reverie is broken by the sound of a voice outside -- Dave's.

She comes through with two drinks.

Fergus: Someone out there.

Dil: Jesus fucking Christ.

She opens the window door, and we see Dave on the street, in a neck brace.

Dil: Hey, Stirling fucking Moss --

Dave: It's Dave.

She goes back into the room and begins taking things up.

Dave: Talk to me, Dil --



51.:



Dil: Sure, Dave --

Dave: Please, Dil --

She flings things down: men's clothes, leather trousers, a suitcase, a teddy bear.

Dil: Take your clothes.

Dave: Don't throw my clothes out the window!

Dil: Fuck off back to Essex!

Dave: Fucking mad!

Fergus looks to the man down in the street, a parody of rejection with his things in his arms.

Dave: Don't chuck my clothes out!

Dil: Take your fucking goldfish, too!

Dil grabs a large goldfish bowl and flings it down. The bowl breaks to bits on the pavement. Goldfish thrash around in the street.

Dave: You fucking bitch!

He tries to pick up the flapping fish in his hands.

Dave: Murderer!

Upstairs, Dil closes the window shut.

Dil: Sorry. How'd he drive with his neck in a brace?

Fergus: Must be in love to manage that.

Dil: Doesn't know the meaning of the word.



52.:



Fergus stands as Dil hands him a glass.

Fergus: He lived here with you?

Dil: Tried to. Sit down, will you?

Fergus walks past the photograph and sits down. He looks from her to the picture.

Fergus: What about him?

He nods toward the picture. She looks down into her drink.

Dil: He was different.

Fergus: How different?

Dil: As different as it's possible to be.

Fergus: Tell me about him.

Dil: No.

Fergus: Shouldn't I go?

Dil: Yes.

And they fall into one another's arms. She stretches up with her whole body over him. They grow suddenly and violently passionate.

They fall into the cushions of the couch onto the floor. The photograph above them seems to smile. He draws up her dress with his hands. She suddenly pulls away.

Dil: No --

Fergus: Did you do that to him?

She comes up toward him once more. She puts her mouth close to his ear.



53.:



Dil: You want to know how I kissed him?

Fergus: Yes...

Dil: Are you jealous of him?

Fergus: Maybe.

Dil: That's good...

She opens the buttons on his shirt and her mouth travels down his chest. Fergus tries to draw her up toward him, but her hand reaches up to his mouth and presses his head back while her other hand undoes his pants. She kisses his stomach; her mouth moves down his body. Fergus stares at the picture of Jody. Jody's eyes seem to burn through him. Dil raises her head and kisses his mouth. There are tears in his eyes.

Fergus: What would he think?

Dil: Can't think. He's dead. In Ireland. He was a soldier. Went there like a fool.

She sits in front of the mirror.

Fergus: Do you miss him?

Dil: What do you think?

Fergus: I think you do.

Dil: (dreamily) You say that like a gentleman.

Fergus: Do I?

Dil: Like you're concerned.

Fergus gets up and stands behind her, gently pushes the hair from her face.



54.:



Dil: But you can t stay, you know that?

Fergus: Didn't think I could.

Dil: A real gentleman...

She embraces him.:

Fergus: Shouldn't you be in mourning?

Dil: I am.

She sits back down in front of the mirror. Fergus leaves. She reapplies her lipstick.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

Singer in a blue dress. Dil and Fergus by the bar. Both drinking drinks with umbrellas. Dave comes up behind them with his neck brace.

Dave: Look, I'm sorry.

Dil: Fuck off, Dave.

Dave: No, I won't fucking fuck off. Said I'm sorry, didn't I?

Dil: Yeah. I heard. You hear, Jimmy?

Fergus nods. He stands. Dave steps two feet back.

Fergus: I was only going to ask her for a dance.

Fergus takes Dil's arm.

Fergus: Shall we?

The woman is singing.

As they circle, people begin to look at them admiringly. Dil holds her cheek close to his.



55.:



Fergus: Did he come here too?

Dil: Is this an obsession of yours?

Fergus: Maybe.

Dil: He did sometimes.

Fergus: Did he dance with you?

Dil doesn't answer. Looks at him out of the corner of her eye.

Dil: So what do you want with me, Jimmy?

Fergus: Want to look after you.

Dil: What does that mean?

Fergus: Something I heard someone say once.

She draws back and looks at him.

Dil: You mean that?

Fergus: Yeah.

She dances closer.:

Dil: Why?

Fergus: If I told you, you wouldn't believe me.

In the bar, people singing along with the music. Col sings. Dave sitting at the bar, sulking.

Dil: You're not having me on, are you? 'Cause Dil can't stand that.



56.:



Fergus: No.

She puts her cheek against his. Dave, at the bar, slams his drink down.

Dil: And she does get very upset...

Dave stands up to leave. On the stage the act finishes. Dil draws Fergus back to the bar.

At the bar.:

Col, the barman, pours her drink.

Dil: One for him, too.

Col pours and smiles.

Dil: Drink.

Fergus: What is this?

Dil: I'm superstitious. Drink.

He drinks. He grimaces. She throws it back in one.

Dil: Can't leave me now.

Fergus: Aha.

Dil: The thing is, can you go the distance?

Fergus: Depends what it is.

Dil: No, depends on nothing.

She takes the bottle herself and fills their glasses. She slams it back. He sips.

Dil: In one.



57.:



She tilts his glass back. He swallows it in one.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

She enters; Fergus walks in slowly. He looks from the cricket whites that are hanging up behind a curtain to the photographs.

Dil: What you thinking of, hon?

Fergus: I'm thinking of your man.

Dil: Why?

Fergus: I'm wondering why you keep his things.

Dil: Told you, I'm superstitious.

She turns toward him and undoes her hair. It falls around her shoulders.

Fergus: Did he ever tell you you were beautiful?

Dil: All the time.

Fergus runs his hand down her throat.

Dil: Even now.

Fergus: No...

Dil: He looks after me. He's a gentleman too.

She draws him behind a curtain toward the bed, pulls him down. They kiss passionately.

Dil: Give me one minute.

She walks into the bathroom. Fergus lies there, looking at the picture, listening to the sound of running water. She comes out then, dressed in a silk kimono. She looks extraordinarily beautiful.



58.:


He reaches out his hand and grasps hers. He draws her toward him. He begins to kiss her face and neck.

Fergus: Would he have minded?

She murmurs no. His hands slip the wrap down from her shoulders.

CLOSE ON HIS HANDS, traveling down her neck, in the darkness. Then the hands stop. The kimono falls to the floor gently, with a whisper. The camera travels with it, and we see, in a close-up, that she is a man.

Fergus sits there, frozen, staring at her.

Dil: You did know, didn't you?

Fergus says nothing.:

Dil: Oh my God.

She gives a strange little laugh, then reaches out to touch him. Fergus smacks the hand away.

Fergus: Jesus. I feel sick --

He gets up and runs to the bathroom. She grabs his feet.

Dil: Don't go, Jimmy --

He kicks her away. He runs into the bathroom and vomits into the tub.

She crouches on the floor.

Dil: I'm sorry. I thought you knew.

He retches again.:

Dil: What were you doing in the bar if you didn't know -- I'm bleeding...

She lights a cigarette.

Fergus runs the taps. He washes his face, rinses his mouth.



59.:



Dil: It's all right, Jimmy. I can take it. Just not on the face.

Fergus slams the door shut. She is sitting on the couch, the kimono round her once more, looking very much like a woman. A trace of blood on her mouth.

Dil: Y'see, I'm not a young thing any longer.... Funny the way things go. Don't you find that, Jimmy? Never the way you expected.

Fergus comes out of the bathroom.

Fergus: I'm sorry.

She looks up. Some hope in her face.

Dil: You mean that?

And he makes to go. She grabs him to stop him.

Dil: Don't go like that. Say something...

He pulls away from her. She falls to the floor.

Dil: Jesus.

He drags himself away and runs down the stairs.

INT. FERGUS'S FLAT

Fergus in bed. Flash to shot of blackness, Jody grinning in cricket whites, throwing the ball up and down in his hand.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

The place is hopping. Fergus enters. He now sees it as he should have seen it the first night -- as a transvestite bar. He makes his way through the crowds. All the women too- heavily made-up. Some beautifully sleek young things he looks at he realizes are young men. He makes his way to the bar where Dil is sitting, nursing a drink with an umbrella in it. Her face is bruised. She is wearing dark glasses.

As he walks toward her she sees him in the mirror. She talks to Col the barman.



60.:



Dil: He's back, Col

Col: Hi.

Dil: Don't want any of those looks, Col. They don't mean much.

Col: Stop it, Dil --

Dil: No. Tell him to go fuck himself.

Fergus sits. Col turns to him.

Col: She wants me to tell you go fuck yourself.

Fergus: I'm sorry.

There is a tear running down her cheek, under the dark glasses.

Dil: Tell him to stop messing Dil around --

Fergus: Dil --

Dil: Tell him it hurt --

Fergus: I have to talk to her, Col --

Col: Says he's got to talk to you --

Fergus touches her arm.

Fergus: Come on, Dil --

Dil: Where?

She whips her arm away.



61.:



Dil: Tell him again, Col. Go fuck himself --

She walks into the crowd, toward the door.

Fergus leaves.:

EXT. STREET - NIGHT.

Fergus, walking outside Dil's place. The blinds in her room are down and the light is on inside. We see her outline, pacing up and down behind the blinds, smoking a cigarette. We hear the song "The Crying Game."

Fergus stands beneath her doorway, scribbles a note, and sticks it in the letter box.

EXT. CRICKET PITCH - DAY

A man removes a large number six from a huge scoreboard with a pole and replaces it with a number nine.

Below the scoreboard we can see Dil walking across a lawn toward the building where Fergus is working.

INT. SITE - DAY

Fergus, fitting a new window into the finished wall. On the pitch we see the cricketers, distorted through the moving glass of the window. Across the pitch Dil walks, with a lunch basket in her hand, dressed in a very short skirt with high heels. As she approaches the site a chorus of whistles breaks out.

Fergus, hearing the whistling, stares out. He sees Dil moving toward the site. He drops the window and the glass shatters. As the whistles continue, we see Dil in the site's lift, which rises up. We see Deveroux and Franknum climbing up a ladder toward Fergus .

Deveroux: How much did that frame cost, Mr. Franknum?

Franknum: Two hundred quid, Mr. Deveroux.

Deveroux: Your Pat just cost me two hundred quid.

Fergus: Sorry.



62.:



Deveroux: Sorry won't bring the bloody thing back, will it, Mr. Franknum?

Franknum: Not in my experience.

Deveroux: Off his wages.

Fergus: Do you mean that?

Deveroux: He wants to know do I mean that.

Franknum: I'm sure you do, Mr. Deveroux.

Deveroux: Bloody right I do...

Through this conversation Fergus can hear the chorus of wolf whistles increasing. He looks out the gap where the window should be and sees Dil in the lift. The laborers whistle at her, looking up her skirt, etc.

She passes by a gap in the wall and blows a kiss at him.

Deveroux: Is that his tart? Does Pat have a tart?

Fergus: She's not a tart.

Deveroux: No, of course not, she's a lady.

Fergus: She's not that either.

Fergus walks out of the room.

Fergus walks round the scaffolding. Dil sees him and waves, sits on some bricks and opens the hamper.

Dil: Darling --

She is acting bright and businesslike, like any wife. She is wearing dark glasses to cover the bruise on her face. She pecks him on the cheek.



63.:



Dil: Never let the sun go down on an argument, Jody used to say.

Fergus: What you doing here?

Dil: Got your note. So let's kiss and make up, hon.

Fergus: Don't call me that.

Dil: Sorry, darling.

Fergus: Give it over, Dil --

Dil: Apologies, my sweet.

Fergus smiles in spite of himself.

Dil: That's more like it, dear. Have a cuppa.

She takes out a thermos and pours him some tea.

Fergus: You're something else, Dil, you know that?

Dil: Never said a truer word.

She hands him a neatly cut sandwich.

Dil: See, I was always best looking after someone. Must be something in the genes.

Fergus: Must be.

Dil: And the fact that you didn't know is basically the fault of yours truly. And even when you were throwing up, I could tell you cared.



64.:



Fergus: You could?

Dil: Do you care, Jimmy?

Fergus: Sure I do.

Dil: You mean that?

Fergus: Yeah. I care, Dil.

She lowers her head.

Fergus: You crying, Dil?

He removes her glasses and looks at her moist eyes.

Dil: I'm tired and emotional.

Then he hears a voice behind him.

Deveroux: Do it on your own time, Paddy.

Fergus: What?

Deveroux: Whatever it is she does for you.

Fergus looks from Dil to Deveroux.

Fergus: If I was her I'd consider that an insult.

Deveroux: Consider it how you like. Just get that bloody tart out of here.

Fergus stands up suddenly. He speaks quietly.

Fergus: Did you ever pick your teeth up with broken fingers?

Deveroux stares, suddenly chilled.



65.:



Deveroux: What's that supposed to mean?

Fergus: It's a simple question.

Deveroux says nothing. Fergus looks down to Dil.

Fergus: Come on, dear.

He holds out his arm. Dil gathers up her things and takes it. Her face is wreathed in a smile.

Dil: He didn't answer, honey --

Fergus walks her down the scaffolding ramp.

Franknum: Sorry about that, Mr. Deveroux.

Dil and Fergus descend from the site in the lift.

Dil: My, oh my, Jimmy, how gallant.

Fergus: Shut up.

Dil: Made me feel all funny inside.

Fergus: I said stop it.

Dil: Ask me to meet you again, Jimmy.

Fergus: You think that's wise?

Dil: Nothing's wise.

The lift stops with a thud.

Fergus: I didn't mean to hit you.

Dil: I know that.



66.:



Fergus: Kind of liked you as a girl.

Dil: That's a start.

Fergus: So I'm sorry.

Dil: Make it up to me, then.

Fergus: How?

Dil: Ask to meet me again.

Fergus: Will you meet me again?

Dil: When?

Fergus: Whenever. Tonight.

She leans forward and kisses him. Fergus hears a wail of catcalls behind him. He watches Dil go as the lift takes him back up to the site.

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus, outside the hair salon. Dil, inside, is throwing off her smock and walking toward him. All the girls are smiling. Fergus looks from Dil to the girls as they approach.

Fergus: Do they know?

Dil: Know what, honey?

Fergus: Know what I didn't know. And don't call me that.

Dil: Can't help it, Jimmy. A girl has her feelings.

Fergus: Thing is, Dil, you're not a girl.



67.:



Dil: Details, baby, details.

Fergus: So they do know.

Dil: All right, they do.

She takes his arm as they walk off.

Fergus: Don't.

Dil: Sorry.

Fergus: I should have known, shouldn't I?

Dil: Probably.

Fergus: Kind of wish I didn't.

Dil: You can always pretend.

Fergus: That's true.... Your soldier knew, didn't he?

Dil: Absolutely.

Fergus: Won't be quite the same though, will it?

Dil: Are you pretending yet?

Fergus: I'm working on it.

Fergus hears a car following them, and turns around to look.

Fergus: There's Dave. He knew too.

Dil: Stop it, Jimmy.



68.:



Fergus: Am I becoming repetitious?

Dil: A little.

Fergus: Sorry.

They reach her door. The car stops.

Fergus: Don't ask me in.

Dil: Please, Jimmy.

Fergus: No. Can't pretend that much.

Dil: I miss you, Jimmy.

Fergus: Should have stayed a girl.

Dil: Don't be cruel.

Fergus: Okay. Be a good girl and go inside.

Dil: Only if you kiss me.

Fergus kisses her. He looks at her open lips as if in disbelief at himself.

Fergus: Happy now?

Dil: Delirious.

She goes inside.:

INT. HOSTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus walks into the room and turns on a small desk-light. Then he hears a voice.

Jude: Hello, stranger.



69.:



He sees Jude sitting in the corner. Her hair is now dark brown.

Jude: You vanished.

He stares at her, says nothing.

Jude: What was it, Fergus? Did you blow the gaff on us or did you just fuck up?

Fergus: Leave me alone, Jude.

Jude: No. That's the last thing I'll do. You never asked what happened.

Fergus: I heard.

Jude: Eddie and Tinker died.

Fergus: I know.

Jude: Maguire and me got out by the skin of our teeth. No thanks to you.... What you think of the hair?

Fergus: Suits you.

She walks round the room.

Jude: Aye, I was sick of being blond. Needed a tougher look, if you know what I mean.

She lies down on the bed beside him, takes off a black leather glove, and puts her hand on his crotch.

Jude: Fuck me, Fergus.

He takes her hand away.

Jude: Am I to take it that's a no?



70.:



He says nothing.:

Jude: We had a court-martial in your absence. They wanted to put a bullet in your head. I pleaded for clemency. Said we should find out what happened first. So what did happen?

Fergus: He ran. I couldn't shoot him in the back. I tried to catch him. He made it to the road and got hit by a Saracen.

Jude: So you did fuck up.

Fergus: Yes.

Jude: But you know what the thing is, Fergus?

Fergus: No, what is the thing?

Jude: You vanished quite effectively. Became Mister Nobody. And you've no idea how useful that could be.

Fergus: What do you mean?

Jude: We've got some plans here. And we'll need a Mister Nobody to execute them.

Fergus: No way, Jude. I'm out.

Jude: You're never out, Fergus.

She looks at him hard. He looks away.

Jude: Maybe you don't care whether you die or not. But consider the girl, Fergus. The wee black chick.

He leaps up from the bed.



71.:



Fergus: Leave her out of this.

Jude: Jesus, Fergus, you're a walking cliche. You know we won't leave her out of this. But I'm glad to see you care.

She brings her lips close to his so they touch.

Jude: And I must admit I'm curious.

He grabs her hair and pulls her head back.

Fergus: What the fuck do you know, Jude?

She pulls a gun and sticks it between his teeth.

Jude: You fucking tell me, boy --

Fergus stares at her. Then says quietly:

Fergus: She's nobody. She likes me.

Jude: So I suppose a fuck is out of the question. Keep your head down, Fergus. No sudden moves. And not a whisper to her. You'll be hearing from us.

She kisses him briefly, with the gun at his temple.

Jude: Keep the faith.

She goes. Fergus stands in the darkness.

EXT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Fergus, walking toward the hair salon, flowers in his hand.

He stands outside watching, the flowers behind his back. Then the chair turns and we see it is Jude.

Fergus freezes. He sees Jude looking at him, smiling brightly, then talking back to Dil



72.:



INT. HAIR SALON - EVENING.

Jude: He your boyfriend?

Jude, turning in the chair.

Jude: Lucky you.

INT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

Dil: Carnations.

Fergus: What?

Dil: He'd bring me carnations.

Fergus: So I got it wrong, then.

Dil: Not at all, honey.

Fergus: Don't.

Dil: Okay.

She smiles brightly at something behind Fergus. He turns and sees Jude is there. Fergus stands, suddenly.

He throws some money on the table, grabs her arm, and frog- marches her out.

Fergus: Come on.

Dil: Why, honey --

Fergus: Come on.

Dil: You gonna tell me why?

Fergus: No.



73.:



As they pass Jude, she smiles.

EXT. INDIAN RESTAURANT - NIGHT.

Outside the restaurant. Fergus marches Dil away.

Dil: What's wrong, Jimmy? Tell me what's wrong --

Fergus: Not here.

They pass out of shot. In the background we see Jude rising.

INT. METRO - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus making their way to their seats at the bar.

Dil: You gonna tell me what it is?

A figure sitting down at the bar. It is Jude.

Jude: What was it?

Dil: You know her, Jimmy?

Jude: Jimmy, is it? Do you know me, Jimmy?

Fergus: Dil, this is Jude.

Dil: You following me?

Jude: Yeah. Just checking. He being nice to you, Dil?

Dil: Ever so nice. Aren't you, Jimmy?

Jude: That's good. I'm glad. Young love, as they say.

Dil: Absolutely. The younger the better. Doesn't come your way much, I suppose.



74.:



Jude: Don't go looking for it, Dil.

Dil: Well, maybe you'll get lucky. Someday.

Jude: A bit heavy on the powder, isn't she, Jimmy?

Dil: A girl has to have a bit of glamour.

Jude: Absolutely. Long as she can keep it. Isn't that right, James...

She leaves. Dil watches her go.

Dil: It's her, isn't it?

Fergus: What's her?

Dil: She's the thing you had to tell me.

Fergus: Kind of.

Dil: I'm sorry, you know that? I'm really sorry.

She looks at Col

Dil: You see that, Col?

Col: Saw it, Dil.

Dil: Fuck it, is what I say.

Col: Yeah. Fuck it, Dil.

Dil: Fucking men, Col --



75.:



Col: Fuck 'em.

There are tears in her eyes. She stands.

Dil: And fuck you, Jimmy --

She staggers out of the pub. Fergus sits there. There is an expression in Col's eyes that makes Fergus feel very, very small.

Col: You could always make it up to her.

Fergus: How?

Col: When a girl runs out like that, she generally wants to be followed.

Fergus: She's not a girl, Col --

Col: Whatever you say.

But Fergus rises and walks out.

EXT. METRO - NIGHT.

A figure standing down the alleyway, smoking. Fergus looks toward it, but Jude is standing there, waiting.

Jude: She went that way --

Jude grabs his arm.

Jude: But you come with me.

She draws him down an alley where the same car is waiting. They get inside.

ANOTHER CAR - BY THE PUB.

Dil, sitting inside a taxi watching Fergus and Jude getting in the car.



76.:



INT. CAR - NIGHT.

In the moving car. Jude is driving, Maguire next to her. Fergus sits in the back.

Fergus: So it was you all the time.

Maguire: Who'd you think it was?

Fergus: I thought it was Dave.

Maguire: And who's Dave when he's at home?

Fergus: He's at home.

Maguire: Should blow you away, you know that?

Fergus: I know that.

Maguire stubs his cigarette out on Fergus's hand, then whacks him on the teeth with his closed fist.

Maguire: I'm getting emotional. And I don't want to get fucking emotional -- you understand, Hennessy?

Fergus: I understand.

Maguire: Fuck you, too --

Jude drives. Fergus looks through the back window at the street outside.

Jude: Leave him alone, Peter. He's in love.

Maguire: That true, Fergus? You in love?

Fergus: Absolutely.



77.:



Maguire: And what's she like between the sheets?

Fergus: Definitely unusual.

Maguire: And who is she?

Fergus: Just a girl.

Maguire: And you know what'll happen if you fuck up again, don't you?

Fergus: Aye, I do, Peter.

Maguire: Good.

EXT. REGENCY SQUARE - NIGHT.

The car draws to a halt in a sedate square. Several doors down is the entrance to what looks like a sedate conservative club.

In the car, Maguire turns off the engine. He nods toward the building.

Maguire: So what do you think that is, Hennessy?

Fergus: A hotel?

Maguire: It's a knocking-shop. Tres discreet, huh? He visits his ladies on Tuesday and Thursday nights and Saturday mornings. His security's in the car beyond.

He nods toward a car, a Daimler, parked some distance away. Fergus looks from the window to the car.

Fergus: Who is he?

Maguire: Doesn't matter who he is. He is what we would call a legitimate target.



78.:



Fergus: Thank God for that.

Maguire: You being cynical, Hennessy?

Fergus: Hope not.

Maguire: Good. So what do you think?

Fergus: Whoever hits him'll be hit, if those men are any good. And I presume you can't get in.

Maguire: Right.

Fergus: So it's on the street.

Maguire: Right.

Fergus: Kind of suicide, isn't it?

Jude turns around to look at him.

Fergus: But, then, I don't have a choice.

Jude: Och, you do, Fergie.

Fergus: Of course. I forgot.

Jude: Come on, Fergie. A rehearsal.

Jude and Fergus get out of the car. They walk down the street, down from the brothel-cum-club, where there is a cafe- bar with some tables outside.

EXT. REGENCY SQUARE - NIGHT.

Fergus and Jude, crossing the street.

Jude: You keep your mind on the job, boy --



79.:



Fergus: And then you'll leave her out of it?

Jude: Aye. Then we'll leave her be.

They take their seats by the tables. We can see the brothel down the way.

Jude: He's arthritic. Takes him two minutes to get to the door.

She checks her watch. Fergus is sweating.

Fergus: And what if I say no?

Jude: You know what. Go.

Down by the brothel, the door swings open.

Fergus walks like any pedestrian down toward the brothel. There is an old, portly gent in a City suit emerging from it. The car by the pavement kicks into action and the door opens.

Fergus quickens his pace.

Jude, by the cafe, watches. Fergus, walking.

The gent makes his way, with gout-ridden slowness, across the pavement, through the passersby, toward the car.

A burly security man emerging from the car, walking toward the old gent.

Fergus reaches the car just before he does, and passes between him and the open door. The old gent's stomach brushes Fergus's elbow.

Gent: Pardon me, young man --

Fergus walks on.:

Jude, from the cafe, watches -- Fergus walking on, the old man being eased with painstaking care inside the Daimler. Then the door closing and the Daimler pulling off.

When the Daimler has passed Fergus, he turns around and walks back.



80.:



Jude smiles and leaps up as he approaches.

Jude: You were made for this.

Fergus: Was I?

Jude: Perfect.

Fergus: And what happens then?

Jude: We'll be on the other side. We'll move when you do.

Fergus: And what if you don't?

Jude: Fergus, I think you don't trust me.

Fergus: You may be right.

Jude: Stay late at your work tomorrow night and I'll bring you the gear.

Jude begins to walk away.

Fergus: Jude?

Jude: Yes?

Fergus: Who's the old geezer?

Jude: Some judge...

She walks off, crosses the road to Maguire, in the car. Fergus turns around to see Dil in front of the cafe. She goes inside; he follows.

Fergus: Why'd you follow me, Dil?



81.:



Dil: Was jealous, Jimmy.

She downs a drink and motions for another. She seems high.

Fergus: Shouldn't be, Dil

Dil: Why shouldn't I be jealous?

There are tears streaming down her face. He takes his hand and begins to wipe her face.

Dil: Don't. My makeup.

She sits down; he joins her.

Dil: She own you, Jimmy?

Fergus: Yes.

Dil: She from Scotland too?

Fergus: You could say that.

Dil: And you're not going to tell me more?

Fergus: I can't.

He wipes the tears from her face with a tissue then dabs the tissue in her drink and wipes some more.

Dil: What you doing, Jimmy?

Fergus: I'm not sure.

Dil: Do you like me even a little bit?

Fergus: More than that.

Dil's face, staring at him.



82.:



Fergus: Come on, let's go for a walk.

She allows herself to be led out.

EXT. HAIR SALON - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus walking. Fergus stops her by the window.

Fergus: You do something for me, Dil?

Dil: Anything.

Fergus: You'd do anything for me?

Dil: Afraid so.

Fergus: You got the keys to the shop?

They walk inside.:

INT. HAIR SALON - NIGHT.

Dil and Fergus standing in the darkness.

Dil: You want another haircut, baby?

Fergus: No. Sit down.

He sits her down in one of the chairs.

Fergus: You'd do anything for me?

Dil nods.:

Dil: Anything.

Fergus takes up a scissors to snip at her hair. Her head leaps back.

Dil: No way --



83.:



Fergus: You said anything, Dil

Dil: A girl has to draw the line somewhere --

Fergus: Want to change you to a man, Dil...

She stares at him.

Dil: Why?

Fergus: It's a secret.

Dil: You'd like me better that way, Jimmy?

Fergus: Yes.

Dil: And you wouldn't leave me?

Fergus: No.

Dil: You promise?

Fergus: I promise.

She takes a breath.

Dil: Go on, then.

Fergus begins to cut.

CLOSE-UP ON DlL'S FACE as her hair is shorn. Tears stream down her cheeks.

Dil: You're no good at this, Jimmy.

Fergus: I'm sorry.

But he keeps cutting. He gives Dil a short, cropped military cut like Jody's.



84.:



Dil: You want to make me look like him...

Fergus: No. Want to make you into something new. That nobody recognizes...

She looks in the mirror at it in the dark.

Dil: Don't recognize myself, Jimmy.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Dil enters, with her new haircut. She goes to turn on the light. He stops her hand.

Fergus: No.

She looks at her hand on his.

Fergus: Better in the dark.

Her fingers close around his.

Dil: So it's true, then?

Fergus: What?

Dil: You like me better like this.

Fergus: Yes.

She brings her lips to his neck. He lets them stay there. His hands travel up to her blouse. He begins to undo the buttons.

Dil: Oh, Jimmy --

Slowly the blouse slips down, exposing her male torso. She falls down to her knees and tugs at his belt.

Fergus: No. No. Dil... get up...

He raises her to her feet and leads her toward the bed. She stretches languorously down on it.



85.:


He unzips her skirt slowly, and draws it off. She turns on the bed sexily, her face to the mattress. She is wearing suspender-belts underneath her skirt.

Dil: Baby...

But Fergus stands and walks quietly over to the wardrobe where the soldier's things are. Dil on the bed, slowly turns.

Dil: What are you doing, honey...

We see Fergus from her point of view, coming toward her with Jody's white cricket shirt, glowing eerily in the dark.

Fergus: Don't call me that --

Dil: Sorry. What you doing?

Fergus draws her slowly up to a standing position.

Fergus: Try this on, Dil

He wraps the shirt around her.

Dil: Why?

Fergus: For me.

Dil: For you...

She kisses him.:

EXT. SMALL HOTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus leading Dil, dressed in Jody's cricket clothes, down the street and inside.

Dil: Why are we going here, Jimmy?

Fergus: Look on it like a honeymoon.



86.:



INT. SMALL HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT.

From above, we see the figures of Fergus and Dil, sleeping on a double bed, both fully clothed. Fergus smokes, then puts out the cigarette.

Time lapse. The light gradually fills the room. Fergus wakes. Looks at the bedside clock, and very gingerly rises, puts on his coat, and walks out.

EXT. SITE - EVENING.

A car pulls up at the site. Jude gets out. She has a satchel in her hand.

INT. SITE - EVENING.

Fergus looking down a ladder-staircase at Jude.

Jude: You a handyman, Fergie?

Fergus: I take pride in my work.

Jude: I sincerely hope so.

Fergus climbs down a ladder to Jude; she hands him something from the bag.

Jude: Tools of the trade.

She kisses him. Fergus looks at her expressionlessly.

Jude: And forget about the girl.

Fergus opens what Jude has given him -- looking inside. There is a gun wrapped in an oilcloth.

INT. SMALL HOTEL - NIGHT.

Fergus enters. The room is empty. He calls.

Fergus: Dil?

No reply. He runs outside.



87.:



EXT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

Fergus looks up at her building, but the lights are off in her flat. The sound of feet behind him. He turns and sees Dil walking toward him, a bottle in her hand. He runs toward her.

Fergus: Dil! Dil! What the fuck are you doing here?

Dil: I'm going home!

Fergus: Told you to stay in the hotel!

Dil: Thought you was fooling me. Thought you was leaving me.

They are tussling in the darkness of the park. She is very drunk.

Fergus: I had to go to work!

Dil: Stayed all day in that room thinking every noise was you. There's something you're not telling me, Jimmy.

He takes her arm.

Fergus: Come on...

Dil: No! I'm going home...

Fergus and Dil, on the stairs up to Dil's flat.

Dil: So tell me.

Fergus: I was trying to get out of something.

Dil: No! Tell me everything, Jimmy.

Fergus looks at her.



88.:



Fergus: You got to forget you ever saw me, Dil.

Dil: You mean that?

Fergus: Yes.

And she suddenly faints into his arms. As if on cue.

Fergus: Stop it, would you?

There is no response. He shakes her.

Fergus: Give it over, Dil, for fuck's sake --

Still no response. He grows alarmed. He slaps her cheek. She opens her eyes slowly.

Dil: Sorry. I get nervous. I got this blood condition. Just help me inside, Jimmy, then I'll be all right.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - NIGHT.

He walks in holding her. Leans her against the wall, then goes to the window to check the street outside.

She takes a large slug from a bottle of whiskey.

Fergus: You heard what I said, Dil?

Dil: My pills...

She points weakly to a cabinet through the open door of the bathroom.

Fergus: What pills?

Dil: Prescription. For my condition.

Fergus: What condition?



89.:



Dil: My condition. Ennui.

He goes and gets the pills.

She takes a handful of pills. She drinks from the whiskey bottle.

Fergus: Are you supposed to take that many?

Dil: Only in times of extreme stress.

She walks around the room, drinking, then sits down.

Dil: See, they all say good-bye sometime. 'Cept for him.

She looks at the picture of Jody. Then she looks at Fergus.

Fergus: Are you all right, Dil?

Dil: I will be.

She stares straight ahead, the bottle clutched in her hands between her knees.

Dil: Go on, then.

Fergus walks slowly toward the door.

Fergus: Good-bye, Dil

Dil: Jimmy?

Fergus: What?

Dil: Don't go like that.

She looks at him, standing up. Something incredibly attractive about her.

Dil: Can't help what I am.



90.:



He walks slowly toward her. He kisses her, on the lips.

We see the photograph with the soldier's smiling face. Fergus looks from it to her. She seems to be in a sweet narcotic haze. She reaches out her hand and strokes his.

Dil: Knew you had a heart...

Fergus sits down on the bed. Dil is lying back on it.

Fergus: Dil Can I tell you something? I knew your man.

Dil: You knew which man?

Fergus: Your soldier.

Dil: You knew my Jody?

She still strokes his hand. Her voice is dreamily slurred, her eyes far away.

Fergus: Lifted him from a carnival in Belfast. Held him hostage for three days.

Dil: You knew my Jody?

Fergus: Are you listening?

Dil smiles woozily.:

Dil: Yes.

Fergus: I got the order to shoot him. Before I could do it he ran. Ran into a tank and died.

Dil: Died...

Fergus: Did you hear me?



91.:



Dil: You killed my Jody?

Fergus: In a manner of speaking.

Dil: It was you...

She is not rational. She is smiling, far away somewhere.

Fergus: You should scream. You should beat my head off.

She woozily tries to hit him round the face.

Dil: You killed my Jody

Fergus: No.

Dil: You didn't.

Fergus: I suppose I tried.

Dil: You tried.

Fergus: Don't you want to kill me?

Dil raises an unsteady hand and points it at him.

Dil: Bang...

He strokes her cheek. She says very slowly and sleepily

Dil: Don't leave me tonight. Might kill me, too.

Fergus: Okay.

Her eyes close. She falls into a deep sleep. Fergus looks down at her, almost fondly.



92.:



INT. DIL'S FLAT - MORNING.

They are lying on the bed together, fully clothed. Dil wakes. She rises very quietly and goes to his coat, thrown across a chair. She searches through the pockets and takes out the gun.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude in bed. An alarm sounds; she reaches to turn it off.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Dil takes several silk stockings out of a drawer and ties them very securely to each corner of the brass bed. She ties them round both of Fergus's feet, very gently, so as not to wake him.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude, in front of a mirror, getting ready.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

She draws one of Fergus's hands up, very gingerly, and ties that securely to the upright. She ties the other and is drawing it upward when he wakes. She jerks the silk stocking so it is secure.

Fergus: What the fuck --

Dil speaks unnaturally quietly.

Dil: So tell me what you're doing, Jimmy.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - MORNING.

Jude, fully dressed. She takes a gun from under the bed and slips it in her handbag.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - MORNING.

Dil crouching beside Fergus, his gun in her hand.

Dil: Didn't really listen last night. I heard but I didn't listen.

Fergus, staring at her. He tries to pull on the bindings.



93.:



Dil: That won't do you no good. Dil knows how to tie a body.

She stands up, still pointing the gun at Fergus.

Dil: Wondered why you came on to me like that when you gave me the look.

Fergus: He asked me to see were you all right.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Jude on the street. Maguire's car pulls up rapidly and she gets inside.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Dil: See, I fix on anyone that's nice to me. Just the littlest bit nice and I'm yours.

Fergus: Stop it, Dil --

Dil: Just don't kick Dil and she'll be touched. Be nice to her and she'll be yours forever.

She looks at him, tears in her eyes.

Dil: See, I should blow you away, Jimmy. But I can't do that. Yet.

Fergus: Let me go, Dil

He drags at his bindings.

Dil: Why?

Fergus: Got to be somewhere.

Dil: Try and go, then.



94.:



EXT. STREET BY BROTHEL - DAY

The figure of the judge in the window. Outline of a woman. Jude and Maguire are in the car, parked across the street. They look toward a paper seller.

Maguire: Where the fuck is he? Christ --

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus pulls furiously at his bindings.

Fergus: Let me go for fuck's sake, Dil -- or they'll be here

Dil: Let them come then.

IN THE CAR. OUTSIDE BROTHEL.

Jude: Can't stay here, Peter -- drive around once more --

He drives off.:

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus collapsed back on the bed, exhausted.

Dil: Just want your company for a little while longer...

EXT. STREET BY BROTHEL - DAY

Maguire's car driving round once more. No sign of Fergus.

Maguire: That fucker's dead --

Jude: No, we are.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus strains and roars from the bed.

Fergus: You don't know what you're doing, Dil --



95.:



Dil: Never did...

MAGUIRE'S POINT OF VIEW -- the brothel door opening. The elderly judge comes out. The car with his security men guns up.

Maguire: Give me the shooter, Jude --

Jude: You're crazy --

Maguire: Give me the fucking shooter!

He grabs it from her pocket. Throws open the door and runs across the street. Jude dives into the driver's seat.

INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Fergus, pulling at his bindings.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE BROTHEL.

The judge walking toward the open door of the car, held open by his goon. Maguire, running toward him, gun in hand. The goon sees him. Maguire shoots as he runs. Once, twice, three times, four. The judge falls. The goon, hit in the arm, pulls an Uzi and returns fire. Maguire hit, still shooting. Other goons tear from the car. Mayhem, screaming. Jude hits the pedal on her car and screeches off. Maguire, dead.

INT. DIL'S FLAT - DAY

Dil dressed in the soldier's cricket clothes. She looks like a sweet little boy. She places a cassette in the tape deck -- "The Crying Game" song. She comes to the bed, and points the gun at Fergus's head.

Dil: You like me now, Jimmy?

Fergus: I like you, Dil --

Dil: Give me a bit more, baby, a bit more.

Fergus: More what?



96.:



Dil: More endearments.

Fergus: I like you, DIl

Dil: Love me.

Fergus: Yes.

Dil: Tell me you love me.

Fergus: Whatever you say, Dil.

Dil: Then say it.

Fergus: Love you, Dil.

Dil: You do?

Fergus: Yeah.

Dil: What would you do for me?

Fergus: Anything.

She begins to cry and lays the gun gently on his chest.

Dil: Say it again.

Fergus: I'd do anything for you, Dil.

She pulls on his bindings to release him.

EXT. STREET.

Two police cars, sirens wailing.



97.:



INT. DIL'S FLAT.

Dil's face, close to Fergus's, as the stockings that bound his hands are nearly undone.

Dil: And you'll never leave me?

Fergus: Never.

Dil: I know you're lying, Jimmy, but it's nice to hear it.

His arm is free. He strokes her hair.

Fergus: I'm sorry, Dil.

She shudders with weeping. The music of the song plays in the background.

Jude walking through the open door, arms extended, holding a gun.

Jude: You stupid shit -- Once was bad enough. But twice.

Dil rises from the bed and points her gun at Jude.

Dil: You didn't knock, honey --

Dil fires, hits Jude. Jude falls and is writhing on the floor.

Fergus: Dil!

Jude: Get that thing off me, Fergus --

Dil walks closer, holding the gun and pointing it at Jude.

Dil: What was that she called you, Jimmy?

Fergus: Fergus.



98.:



Dil: What's Fergus?

Fergus: It's my name, Dil --

Dil: What happened to Jimmy?

Jude: I said get it off me, Fergus --

Jude, on the floor, reaches for her gun. Manages to grab it.

Dil: What's she going to do, Jimmy? She going to blow you away?

Dil shoots again, like a child, playing with a toy. She hits Jude in her gun shoulder. Jude spins one way, the gun the other.

Dil: Was she there too? When you got my Jody?

Fergus screams:


Fergus: Dil!!!

Dil: I asked you a question, honey -- were you there too --

Jude: You sick bitch --

As she raises the gun, Dil shoots her repeatedly, saying:

Dil: You was there, wasn't you? You used those tits and that ass to get him, didn't you?

Fergus screams from the bed. He rips free his other arm. Dil shoots Jude in the throat, and she falls dead, covered in blood. Dil turns the gun on Fergus.

Dil: She was there, wasn't she?



99.:



Fergus: She was --

Dil: And she used her tits and that cute little ass to get him, didn't she?

Fergus: Yes.

Dil: Tell me what she wore.

Fergus: Can't remember...

Dil points the gun at him, squeezing on the trigger. Then she stops.

Dil: Can't do it, Jimmy. He won't let me.

She looks at the picture; walks over and sits down in front of it.

Dil: You won't let me, Jody --

She raises the gun and places it in her mouth. Fergus takes it gently from her mouth and places it on the table. He lifts her up by the shoulders.

Fergus: You've got to go now, Dil --

Dil: Do I?

Fergus: Yes. Now.

Dil: Am I in trouble, Jimmy?

Fergus: Not if you go.

Dil: Will I see you again?

Fergus: You will, Dil



100.:



Dil: Promise?

Fergus: I promise.

Dil: Where am I to go, Jimmy?

Fergus: The Metro.

Dil: Meet Col --

Fergus: Yes. Say hello to Col --

He leads her out the door. Fergus goes back into the room, past Jude's body. Looks out the window to where he can see Dil staggering down the street, through the crowds that have gathered. The wail of police sirens coming closer. He watches Dil run off, with her funny walk. Then looks down and sees the cop cars pushing through the knot of people around the house. He picks up the gun, wipes it with a rag to remove Dil's fingerprints. He turns to the picture of the soldier; talks to it.

Fergus: You should have stayed at home.

He sits in the chair by the window, waiting.

FADE TO BLACK.

INT. PRISON VISITING ROOM - DAY

FADE UP to reveal a large interior, with light streaming in the windows. Large barred doors open and a group of women come through, with parcels, children in tow, etc. Among them is Dil, looking resplendent. She walks past the rows of convicts with their families, up to a glass cage, where Fergus sits, waiting.

Dil: Got you the multivitamins and the iron tablets, hon --

Fergus: Don't call me that --



101.:



Dil: Sorry, love. Now, the white ones are magnesium supplement --

Fergus: Stop it, Dil --

Dil: I've got to keep you healthy, Jimmy. I'm counting the days. Two thousand three hundred and thirty-four left.

Fergus: Thirty-five.

Dil: I'm sorry, darling. I keep forgetting the leap year. What am I supposed to call you then, Jimmy?

Fergus: Fergus.

Dil: Fergus. Fergus my love, light of my life - -

Fergus: Please, Dil --

Dil: Can't help it. You're doing time for me. No greater love, as the man says. Wish you'd tell me why.

Fergus: As the man said, it's in my nature.

Dil: What's that supposed to mean?

She shakes her head.

Fergus: Well, there was this scorpion, you see. And he wants to go across the river. But he can't swim. So he goes to this frog, who can swim, and he says to him, "Excuse me, Mr. Froggy..."



102.:



CAMERA PULLS BACK, and as Fergus tells the story of the scorpion and the frog, the music comes up -- "Stand By Your Man."

Fade out.:




