


<b><!--: </b>if (window!= top) top.location.href=location.href <b>// --> </b> JASON X - Revised Rough Draft


Jason-x: BY TOD FARMER REVISED ROUGH DRAFT MAY 24, 1999

FADE IN:

Darkness.:

A scream rises to an ominous crescendo as we SHOCK CUT INTO -

MONTAGE of fast moving clips.  Death, destruction, fear.  All images taken from the previous ten Friday The 13ths.

Again, darkness.:

Open on::

The year is 2455. The place is Old Earth. Barren, void of life, a hazardous and violent planet. The sky is blood red with spiked clouds of dark gray.  It is beautiful, but frighteningly foreign.

BLUE LIGHTNING CRACKLES as several figures rush through a DUST STORM below.

Small groups of people, wearing thick dusters, goggles and masks, work nearby. Some dig in the cracked earth, others take assorted readings with strange devices.

This is an archeological expedition.

CUT TO:

INT.  DARK PLACE

The dust storm rages outside. Two figures are looking closely at a small object buried in the dirt. One of them pulls a device out of their pouch and slowly, gently picks up the object. The other uses a magnetic tool to remove the dirt.

Female voice: Careful . . .

Male voice: I know.

They take off their masks and goggles. They are both young. ADRIENNE female (17) watches as STONEY male (18) studies the object closely.

Stoney: (reading) Not guaranteed, if used After 2198.

CLOSE UP of the object. It's an unopened condom.

Adrienne: (smiles) You thinking what I'm thinking?

Stoney tosses the high tech equipment over his shoulder and rips open the condom as Adrienne rips her clothes off.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

They are in a half buried mini-van.  It rocks violently from the raging storm outside and from the raging lust inside.

BACK INSIDE THE VAN.

Adrienne: (breathless) What about Kkinsa?

STONEY is desperately trying to take off her bra.

Stoney: It's over between us. You're the only one for me!

METAL SCREECHES! THE FLOOR COLLAPSES!

They fall some ten feet, RUBBLE RAINING down on top of them.

INT.  DARK CORRIDOR

A rusty metal ladder. Debris everywhere. Half inch layers of dust cover everything. Dead. Lifeless.

Stoney: You okay?

Adrienne sits up, shines her light down the long metal corridor. She turns her light on STONEY then sees something over his shoulder.

SHE SCREAMS A BLOOD CURDLING SCREAM.

We PULL BACK, out of the tunnel, through the van as the sounds of the storm drown out ADRIENNE'S SCREAM.

CUT TO:
EXT.  BASE CAMP

The digging and readings have stopped. A group approaches a time scarred shuttle and begin loading their packs into the cargo belly.

FAT LOU (40), rail thin, possible female, pilot, appears at the top of the shuttle ramp.

Fat lou: (yelling over the wind) Let's go! Time to load up!

YLLO(33), a professor of archaeology lowers his veil.

Yllo: (yelling) I'm missing two!

Fat lou: Shit! Temp's dropping! We should have left this rock an hour ago!

Boeman: (eyes a device) North three clicks.

CUT TO:

EXT. MINI-VAN - DAY

YLLO and the rest of the group run into view. BOEMAN (18), husky, physical; holds out a device and checks the reading.

He points to the rusted out mini-van sitting on its belly.

Boeman: (yelling) There!

KICKER(30), bulky, short on temper, rushes up wearing futuristic military garb -

Kicker: Yo, Teach, what the fuck?

Yllo: We're missing two of the kids!

Kicker: Get your ass back to the shuttle. I'll check it out.

KICKER moves past the group and into the Van.

Yllo: Not without me!

The rest of the gang look at each other and climb into the Van.

INT. ANCIENT CORRIDOR

YLLO and the others climb down a rusted ladder. Metallic walls, graffiti, cluttered floors. No Stoney or Adrienne. A sign from the ceiling states -

CRYSTAL LAKE RESEARCH FACILITY.

They all take off the goggles and masks. The rest of the group consists of DELONGPRE(18) good looking, smart ass; JANESSA(17) sexual, scheming AZRAEL(17) SMALL, COCKY; KKINSA(16), insecure, problematic; THORGAN(17), a nerd but doesn't know it.

Yllo: Amazing! But, how . . I've been coming here for ten years. We never picked this up on our . . . KAY-EM?

KAY-EM 14, a cybernetics science droid, removes her veil. She's gorgeous, but there's something off about her look. Something synthetic.

Kay-em 14: The air's laced with type two ozone, it reads as a solid.

Thorgan: Somebody wanted the place to stay hidden.

Kay-em 14: In twenty-eighty-two many of the survivors moved their facilities underground to escape . . .

Kicker: All right, all right, enough with the history lesson. Lets find these two quick . . so I can kick some little punk ass.

Kkinsa shines a flashlight around the dark tunnel.

Kkinsa: I have an idea, why don't you go find them and we'll get the hell out of here!

KKINSA turns and finds herself face to face with - -

A CORPSE! Easily two-hundred years old it hangs from the wall, impaled through the forehead by an iron spike.

Kkinsa screams!:

Kicker yanks a weapon from his back, locks and loads as

JANESSA falls back and lands in the lap of another corpse. She screams!

KAY-EM 14 SCREAMS at the top of her lungs. Everyone looks at the droid.

Kay-em 14: Was that out loud?

Delongpree: Thorgan, have you been screwing with . . .

THORGAN grabs the head off the CORPSE, with the spike through it's head.

Thorgan: Cool! This is an automatic "A".

Azrael dumps the contents of his bag on the ground, an old boot, some cds, and an ancient box of PLAYTEX . . . starts shoving the corpse into his pack. AZRAEL I've got my project. What are you losers gonna do?

Kicker: Back to the shuttle! All of you! I'll find them.

Yllo: Relax, Soldier boy, this is amazing. These remains are two hundred years old.

Yllo's light hits a sign hanging from the ceiling. DANGER. STAY OUT.

Boeman: Creepy.

Thorgan: Cool.

Kkinsa: Okay, I'm outta here.

Yylo: Kay-Em, any thoughts?

Kay-em 14: Girth is better than length and women prefer a shaved scrotum during oral sex.

Yllo glares a Thorgan.

Thorgan: I'm trying to give her some personality.

Yllo: Well stop messing with her. I don't want a science droid with a personality. Now let's find them and get back. I want to get clearance to stay back and study this . . .

Kkinsa: No way! I'm not staying here any longer . . . I have a life you know.

A radio crackles.:

Fat lou(v.o.): Hey teach! This rock's starting to freeze! Get your ass back hre!

Yllo: (into radio) Keep your shirt on! I'm working on it. You won't believe what we found. (calls out) Adrienne! Stoney!

Yllo rushes past the corpse. The others reluctantly follow. They pass another hanging sign - Danger - THEY PASS ANOTHER CORPSE LYING ON THE FLOOR, it's torso separated from it's legs. And this is just the beginning. As they move down the corridor there are bodies everywhere.

Boeman: There was a hall of a battle down here.

S they move further they break a laser beam . . . sparks fly. A WARNING VOICE sounds.

Computer voice: Dan-danger. Do not enter-er.

But the group keeps moving.

Kkinsa: I feel compelled to ask why we are ignoring that.

A corpse lies on the floor before them, it's skeletal hand beneath a warning written in ancient blood . . .

HELP ME . . .

Suddenly another CORPSE LEAPS at them, screaming like a banshee! Everyone SCREAMS - It lands on Kkinsa, who totally freaks trying to get the corpse off her.

DELONGPREE and YLLO help Kkinsa fight the rotting corpse. They hear hysterical laughter and look up to see -

ADRIENNE and STONEY . . . emerge from the shadows laughing uncontrollably.

Delongpree: Damnit!

Yllo: What the hell are you two doing?!

Kkinsa eyes Adrienne, then glares at Stoney.

Kkinsa: You're toast, mister.

Yllo: You're both toast!

Adrienne: You gotta see this!

They turn down the right corridor, passing beneath ceiling consisting of a jumbled mess of jagged metal.

Thorgan: (re: ceiling) That's a strange design, don't you think?

Kicker: We don't have time for this shit.

As they pass we see a section of the jagged metal ceiling twitch and squeeze together. That can't be a good thing . . .

STONEY and Adrienne stop at a huge metal door. Above the door . . . CRYOGENICS LAB.

Adrienne points to a small window in the door.

Delongpree: Yeah, so? I had Cryo 101 last year.

Adrienne: Check it out.

With a smirk, Adrienne wipes the condensation from the small window in the door. Drawn from the inside, in blood, is a final warning -

A SKULL AND CROSSBONES

Kkinsa: So don't open the door.

Adrienne: Look beyond it, yesterday's news.

Yllo pushes his way to the window.

Shocked faces.:

INSIDE the blue tinted room we see a huge domed Cryo cylinder. It's massive, but our attention is pulled to the corner of the room. Curled up into a ball, is a body - female, young.

Yllo: Is that?

Kay-em 14: The room's still operational. She's perfectly preserved.

Yllo's face lights up, grabs his radio.

Yllo: (into radio) Fat Lou, bring the ship to the following coordinates. Call Grendel, have them power up the labs, we're bringing in the find of the century!

Kicker: Now wait a minute! I don't think you should open that door.

Yllo: This is a science excursion corporal. Just stay out of the way.

Yllo turns to the kids. He's very excited.

Yllo: Okay, no screwing around. This is the real thing. Do exactly what I say. Okay Thorgan, open it up.

Thorgan pops the cover from a control panel and hooks up a small gadget.

Kkinsa: You're opening the door? What about the . . . ?

She points to the skull and crossbones.

Delongpree: I'm thinking we should call in some experts.

Yllo: This is your find people. You want to give your credit away?

Delongpree: I was just saying . . .

Thorgan: The cryo unit leaked. The computers sealed the room. No airborne viruses no hazardous materials. I've shut down the until. Alright, stand back.

Kay-em 14: Hold your breath. Initial cryo gasses will render you unconcious.

Delongpree: Knock you on your ass pal.

They don their face masks as  . . . Fshhhhhshshsh. The metallic door cracks open causing a powerful backdraft. The freezing cold air mixes with the air outside the chamber creating a strange gray gas. Ice crystals crack and fall to the floor.

EXT.  CRYO CELL

Yllo: Kay-Em!

Kay moves into the room ahead of the others.

INT.  CRYO CELL

CLOSE ON KAY-EM'S EYES

They are not human. Mechanical, digital, but alluring. They dilate, open up. Colored lasers shoot forth, slicing through the gas, scanning the body.

--which itself is slumped over. An icicle of frozen blood from, the wound in her shoulder, props the body up.

The other enter the icy chamber.

Delongpree: I speak on behalf of the group when I say . . . that's fucked.

Kay-em 14: Female, nineteen years old, eight months . . . 34-26-34 . . . bitch is built like a brick shit house.

Yllo: Thorgan?!!!

Thorgan: Sorry. I'll fix her when we get back.

Kay-em 14: Time of hibernation 2049. Crystallization at seventeen percent. Suggest extensive Nanotech. Chances of rejuvenation eight-one percent.

Kkinsa: What's going on?

Delongpree: She's dying.

Janessa: Bitch looks dead to me.

The RADIO CRACKLES . . .

Sergeant brodski(v.o.): Yllo, Sergeant Brodski. Get your ass back to the shuttle!!

Yllo: Janessa, stretcher. (into radio) Keep your shirt on, sergeant. We have a medical emergency here not tot mention the discovery of a lifetime.

Sergeant brodski(v.o.): Kicker! Get them the hell out of there!

Janessa removes a Metallic cube from her backpack, clicks a button and a flat stretcher expands and hovers a few feet off the ground.

Kicker grabs yllo.:

Kicker: We're outta here!

Yllo pulls away, leans over the frozen girl, grabs the frozen string of blood and -CRACK-breaks it off.

Yllo: Fine, grab that end.


Kicker sighs and helps Yllo lift the frozen girl and place her curled body on the stretcher.

Another angle:

As thorgan stands at the massive Cryo-Unit -

Thorgan: Hey check this out!

Protruding from the door is the tip of a machete.

Thorgan: This caused the leak and there's an occupant.

Thorgan yanks the door open.

Kicker: Don't touch that!

Gas rolls out. Suddenly ALARMS SOUND and LIGHTS STROBE.

Kkinsa: This is bad, no?

Thorgan: Relax, it's only a  glitch in the system.

Janessa: First field trip and you think you're a Scientist. Move out of the way geek.

JANESSA moves to look inside the chamber.

As the gas and steam clear - we hear the sound of CRACKING ICE, see a jagged mass of frozen crystals . . . and within it . . . a body. A chunk of ice CRACKS and falls tot he floor then THE MASK of JASON VOORHEES looms forward!

JANESSA screams as JASON'S BODY, stiff as a board, CRASHES to the ground sending ice shrapnel everywhere!

Delongpree: Jesus, used to make the suckers big didn't they?

Again, Kay-Em's eyes scan the frozen body.

Kay-em 14: Subject was dead prior to incubation.

Yllo moves to get a good look at Jason.

Yllo: My God, look at him. Why would they freeze a dead body? (a beat) Alright, load him up, and let's get out of here!

OVER HIS SHOULDER - HALL

A pair of three foot metallic spiders drop on thin wires to the floor.

Back inside:

One of Boeman's gadgets starts to BEEP.

Boeman: Er, guy? I'm picking up some movement.

FZZZZT . . . Azrael screams as a laser slices into the room. His left arm falls to the ground!

Kay-Em rushes to him. Her finger pops open. A needle appears. She injects him. The drugs take immediate effect.

Azrael: Cool . . . check out my arm.

CLINK - CLINK, CLINK, CLINK, CLINK.

Hall:

The metallic spiders, lasers attached to their bodies, CLANK towards our heroes.

Yllo: Kicker!

Kicker: Defense droids. I'm on it.

Kicker slams the Cryo door shut as lasers slice into it.


Kkinsa: There goes prom night.

Kicker clicks at a gadget attached to his forearm.

Kicker: They're only class two. I can handle this. No problem.

Azrael: Not a problem?!

Kay-Em injects him again.

Azrael: I'm missing a fucking arm heeeerrrr- (re:shot) Oh, that's dreamy.

The lasers begin strategically slicing through hinges.

Janessa: Okay rent-a-cop, do your shit. I gotta date tonight.

Kicker: Stand back!

He pulls a gadget from his pack, punches in a series of buttons.

Yllo: We have to get these two back in one piece!

Kay-Em turns to the frozen girl.

Kay-em 14: Subject is critical. Needs nano stabilization immediately.

Yllo: Kicker! Do something!

Adrienne: Oh Gawd! I wish it would stop doing that.

At her feet, Azrael's arm twitches spastically.

Azrael: (drugged up) That is soooo cool!

Kicker cracks the door and tosses his gadget.

Kafoom!:

Kicker: Come on!

Kicker throws open the door and starts BLASTING! Yllo and the kids follow him into the hall, the two stretches in tow. They disappear around the bend - towards the exit.

A beat then . . . screaming. They run back into view. Behind them - -

CLINK, CLINK, CLINK, CLINK, CLINK.

A dozen laser wielding spiders make chase! Some are old and rusty, other slump over and short out, but those that work . . . work well.

INT.  LONG CORIDOOR

Kicker is running backwards, BLASTING with his weapon. Lasers FLASHING all around our group.


Kkinsa: Have I told you guys how much I hate this class?

Kicker: We need another exit! I'll hold 'em off! Teach, find a way out!

Boeman: I'm on it!

Kicker: Sorry kid, leave this to the pros.

Boeman: (re: gadget) Left at the end of the hall!

A laser strikes the body of Jason Voorhees, breaking off a chunk of ice.

Thorgan: (reading from device) They're not after us. Their sensors are locked in on . . . him!

Thorgan points to JASON'S STRETCHER.

Kicker: Leave him behind!

Yllo: No! He's coming with us!

They round a corner . . .

Boeman: Here. We're one meter from the surface!

Kicker: Then duck.

CHA-CHUNK . . he cocks his grenade launcher and fires at the ceiling.

KABLOOM!! Rocks and falling debris reveal the violent surface above.

Delongpree: It's too high!

Kicker rolls around the corner and starts blasting!

Kicker: Make it happen!

Janessa: They're just subclass B droids. I'm so not impressed.

Boeman: Stoney, you catch.

Stonet leaps, grabs the lip and tosses his feet up and over in a very acrobatic move.

Boeman kneels, cups his hands to make a step. He begins tossing his friends up to Stoney as Kicker makes war in the hall!

Soon, Boeman and Kicker are the only two left.

Boeman: We're clear! Let's go!

Boeman leaps up, grabs the lip and pulls himself to safety. He spins around and holds his arm out for Kicker.

Kicker leaps, grabs Boeman's hand. Boeman strains to pull him up as spider's cover the floor below them, then -

A spider crawls up Kicker's leg - a spike shoots out into Kicker's thigh. He screams.

Kicker: They've got me! Let go!

Boeman: No!

Boeman ROARS and pulls harder. Kicker's pack RIPS from his body - the spiders falling with the pack.

EXT. SURFACE - DAY

The sand storm is raging on the surface. Kicker lands on top of Boeman.

Boeman: That wasn't so bad.

Kicker bites the pin from a grenade, tosses it into the hole.

Kicker: (yells) This will be!

The others dive for the ground as -  -

KAFOOM! A FIREBALL rises up out of the hole!

Thorgan: Nice touch.

Boeman: And you said high school was boring.

Our team fights the winds and rushes up the ramp of the waiting shuttle.

FAT LOU is waiting at the ramp. He looks at the two stretchers.

Fat lou: Oh my God . . . what the hell is . . .

Yllo: Just get us to the ship!

Azrael stops in a panic!

Azrael: Oh shit I forgot my arm!

Adrienne: Here. Dumbass.

She hands him the severed limb as they race up the ramp.

The door closed, the SHUTTLE LIFTS OFF THE GROUND and soars into the sky.

CUT TO:

EXT.  ORBIT AROUND OLD EARTH - LATE

THE SHUTTLE maneauvers through the junk that now floats in orbit. Old satellites, the front quarter of a Space Shuttle, etc.

INT.  SHUTTLE COCKPIT

Navigating through the debris, FAT LOU grabs a radio mike.

Fat lou: This is Beowulf approaching from sector fifteen.

Through the front windshield we see - -

GRENDEL, a class IV Catamaran Transport. It looks like two huge torpedoes attached by three thin walkways. Not new, but by no means old.

Bernie(v.o.): I've got you, Beowulf. Proceed with docking. And by the way, Brodski's pissed.

INT.  DOCKING BAY

The shuttle doors open revealing SERGEANT BRODSKI and six E-X GRUNTS standing with weapons at the ready.

As the group gather their equipment and begin to move the two stretchers, Brodski stepsi n front of YLLO.

Brodski: What the hell were you thinking?

YLLO ignores him, turns to his team.

Yllo: Get them in the lab!

Brodski: Not so fast Yllo! There's a protocol here.

The E-X Grunts step in front of kids.

Yllo: (to the grunts) Back off!

Yllo: (back to the kids) Get them to the labs . . . Now!

The team moves through the Grunts.

Yllo: What the hell are you doing?

Brodski looks down at the stretcher with the young woman's body on it.

Brodski: My god! This is way over your head, pal. We need to call some experts and . . .

Yllo: I am an expert!

Brodski: You're a teacher.

Yllo: Brodski I'll talk slow so you can understand me. She's thawing. If we don't get her to the lab, she'll die, and that will be on your bald fucking head!

Brodski: What if they're carrying? Did you even check?

Kay-em 14: Subjects scan virus clean . . .

Brodski attempts to shove Kay-Em out of his way . . . BUT she stands her ground . . . grabs his crotch.

Kay-em 14: Mmm, you like the rough stuff don't you, big boy?

Brodski and Yllo look at Thorgan.

Brodski and yllo: Thorgan!!

Thorgan: Sorry . . . I'll fix her . . . I promise.

Brodski: How do you know that piece of cursed rock down there doesn't carry something metal tits can't detect?

Yllo: Well, when we rejuvenate this one you can ask her.

Brodski: Damnit, Yllo! I don't like it.

Yllo: I don't give a shit. This one's prime for decryonization. We're brining her back.

Brodski: I still think we should send for a team of real scientists.

Yllo: I am a scientist you asshole! This could be the most important discovery in 400 years. Do you have any idea what a find like this could mean?

Brodski: Right now, I care only for the safety of this crew. You don't know anything about these two -

The stretcher with JASON moves by them. Brodski looks down.

Brodski: Jesus what the hell is that?

Yllo: That's exactly what we need to find out. Check your orders, Sergeant. I out rank you where discovery is concerned. Now step aside. I have a medical emergency to deal with.

Reluctantly, Brodski steps aside. As the kids follow, Azrael bumps into DALLAS, one of the E-X GRUNTS. Azrael glares at him, brandishing the severed limb.

Azrael: Watch it punk, I'm armed.

Dallas: Punk?

Dallas slaps Azrael across the back of the head as he passes.

Azrael: You'll pay for that.

Dallas and the grunts laugh.

CUT TO:

INT.  GRENDEL BRIDGE

FAT LOU and BERNIE, a synthetic pilot existing only from the waist up in his pilot's chair, set course for home.

Bernie: Gravitation nominal. Thrusters engaged.

Fat lou: (into radio) Grendel to Grendel's mother, we are enroute.

Grendel's mother(v.o.): Copy that, Grendel. Computer ovverides deployed. See you in two days.

CUT TO:

INT.  LABS

Dark, quiet, until the lights glare on.

LAB ONE doubles as a Medical Research center and Sick Bay. GLASS JARS filled with some of the strangest creatures ever seen cover the back wall.

Yllo and the students bring the girl in. Their movements are hurried and economical . . .but they're excited.

Yllo: Get her prepped for the soup. (to Adrienne) Take the other one to lab two.

Adrienne: Yllo, this is my find. My project. I want to be in here.

Yllo: I know, dear, but this is too big a discovery. I need you to prep the second body.

Adrienne: But, I want . . .

Yllo: This is a discovery that we will all share. We have to work as  a team. Now go. Stoney go with her.

Thorgan and Delongpre lift the Girl onto the rejuvenation table.

Stoney whispers something to Kkinsa before he exits with Adrienne.

Kkkinsa nods and wheels a huge SCANNING MACHING over to the Girl. She starts the scan as Delongpree and Thorgan cut the clothes off their "find".

Thorgan: Have I told you guys how much I love this class?

Delongpree brushes some of the melting crystals from her face.

Delongpree: She's beautiful . . .

Thorgan cuts her shirt off.

Thorgan: Damn! Talk about your hard nipples.

INT.  LAB TWO

Adrienne and Stoney push Jason into the lab.

LAB TWO is smaller and less high-tech than LAB one. They shove JASON'S body onto the EXAM TABLE.

Adrienne: Fucking Yllo! Thinks he can push me aside. This is my find!

She removes chucks of ice from JASON'S FACE.

Stoney: You know even though we both found this guy , I'll let you take the credits. You can take it from here.

Adrienne: Oh thanks . . . fine go. It's just another dissection. You'll only get in my way.

Stoney: Cool. Besides, you're into this shit.

Stoney leaves Adrienne alone with Jason . . . and he is THAWING.

INT.  LAB ONE

Yllo walks around the room, overseeing all the action. He's excited and cocky.

Yllo: Hands on training is rare. You should consider yourself lucky.

Azrael: Lucky?!

Azrael sits in a large machine. This is . . .

The NANO-TECH 2000. It can repair non-fatal injuries with the use of Nano-Technology.

Azrael is scanned by the NT-2000 and so is his injury. It goes into action as articulated mechanics begin to re-attach his arm.

Azrael: Another hour and I'd have lost the arm.

Janessa: Oh, was that the hand you beat off with?

Azrael: I better get extra credit for this shit.

Yllo: Delongpree, Status. How you doing?

Delongpree cuts her underpants from her body and tosses them over his shoulder.

Delongpree: (swallows hard) I'm Okay.

Stoney: Well she's definitely a blond.

Janessa: Oh that's scientific.

Delongpree: You think all girls from the past looked this good?

Janessa: She's not that great.

Thorgan: 400 years . . . I bet she'll be horny.

Yllo: Okay, people, we need to Learn everything there is to learn about our two guests. And if all goes well, I'll mention each one of you when I make my nobel prize speech.

Delongpree: (underbreath) Yeah, right.

Delongpre presses a button on the table. The edges of the table RISE UP to create a clear dome around the table. A hot gel-like substance shoots out of small tubes. The FROZEN BODY is covered in the NANO-GEL.

Thorgan checks a monitor.

Thorgan: Everything looks good.

Yllo smiles - gushing self-satisfaction.

Yllo: Turn up the heat.

Adrienne is wearing a metal eyepiece while staring at a computer screen. No hands.

Adrienne: Done. Crystallization remains seventeen percent.

INT.  LAB TWO

Adrienne scans Jason with a machine identical to the one Kkinsa was using in LAB ONE.

Computer voice: Crystallization at sixty percent Subject classification . . . deformity.

Adrienne: Put it on the screen.

A monitor lights up with a scan of Jason's body. The internal organs are distorted and bloated. She keys into the next lab.

Back to lab one.

Adrienne(v.o.): (over speaker) Guys, check out beef-cakes scan.

Jason's 3-D scan appears on one of the big monitors.

Adrienne(v.o.): Look at the brain.

Within Jason's skull is a brain the size of a golf-ball.

Janessa: It's just like Thorgan's. What do you think this means?

Thorgan grabs his crotch.

Thorgan: This is what it means right here.

Janessa: Small brains make your balls itch?

Delongpre: And what's with the headgear?

Kay-em 14: The mask is an artifact from a sport outlawed in twenty-twelve.

Boeman: Hockey.

Kay-em 14: A medieval sport where two teams club one another with elongated sticks. Very sexy.

Yllo: What do you expect from a culture that sucked its planet dry of resources.

She eyes Stoney. He smiles knowingly.

Kkinsa: This bores me.

Delongpre: She's red. Body temp 98.6. This is so cool.

Yllo: Prep defib and start the cell reconstruction.

KAY-EM 14 presses a series of buttons. A long needle punctures the GIRL'S NECK. Jason's scan is replaced by the girl's. We see Nanotechnology going to work replacing her wounds and damaged cells.

Thorgan: Cool!

Kkinsa and Stoney back out of the room unnoticed.

Yllo: Is she stable?

Kay-em 14: Subject is stable and cell reconstruction has begun.

Delongpre: Now what?

Yllo: We wait. I need about fifteen. Call me if there are any changes. If she farts I want a full report.

Azrael: Don't I deserve a sick day or some shit like that?

Yllo exits.: CUT TO:

INT.  STONEY'S CABIN

The door swishes open. Stoney enters with Kkinsa close behind. Kkinsa raises her hand.

Kkinsa: Adrienne?! Of all people!

Stoney: You're jealous.

Stoney moves back. Kkinsa moves close hand raises above her head.

Kkinsa: Adrienne?!

Stoney: It's over between us. You're the one I want.

Kkinsa grabs the back of her shirt and pulls it over her head.

Kkinsa: Bed!

A bed slides out from the wall, hitting Stoney in the back of the legs, causing him to fall on the bed. Kkinsa straddles him. Stoney grabs her. The two fall into a feverish kiss.

CUT TO:

INT.  LAB TWO

Adrienne is prepping various medical tools. JASON'S BODY is laying on an autopsy table. Steam rises from his body as thick ooze drips from his thawing flesh.

She turns on a computer monitor.

Adrienne: Prepare organ vats.

Two metal sinks hiss as liquid nitrogen flows.

Adrienne: Okay big boy . . .

She picks up a long, sharp chrome tool and walks over to Jason's body.

Adrienne: (continuing) . . . let's see what you're made of.

CUT TO:

INT.  YLLO'S CABIN

Yllo enters and approaches a computer console. The door behind him opens. Janessa enters.

Janessa: All this science shit, makes me horny. (removes her shirt) Take off your cloths, we don't have much time.

She drops her shirt to the floor. Yllo retrieves it, hands it back.

Janessa: You're quicker than usual.

Yllo: Later.

Janessa: You prefer an apple?

He forces her into the hall, closes the door, locks it. He returns to the console.

Yllo: (to console) Secure line. Perez, Joshua, Solaras Space Lab. Connect.

EXT.   SOLARAS SPACE LAB - EST.

A huge cylindrical ship, floats quietly. We hear a BEEPING sound.

INT.   SOLARAS SPACE LAB - PEREZ QUARTERS

Joshua Perez rolls over, clicks on a light. He fumbles for a button, presses it. A wall monitor lights up revealing Yllo's face.

INTERCUT AS NEEDED

Perez: You son of a bitch, you know what time it is?

Yllo: We just left old Earth. You'll never believe what we found.

Yllo inserts a disk into the console.

Yllo: I'm sending you the files.

Perez: (testy) Yeah, yeah if this is another ancient Farrari . . .

Yllo: Trust me. I'm bypassing regular channels. See what kind of payday we're looking at.

Perez: (begins download) Alright, I'm . . . (reacts to file) No way . . . is this a joke?

Yllo smiles.:

CUT TO:

INT.  LAB TWO

Adrienne leans over JASON'S THAWING body. Oozing goo drips from the slab.

She is inches away from his steaming mask. She taps it with her tool.

She begins working at the straps of the mask, cutting the overgrown flesh away.

INT.  YLLO'S CABIN

Yllo studies a monitor. On screen: a document entitled, EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS OF DISCOVERY. He talks on the secure line.

Yllo: Hypothetically, how much are we talking?

Perez(v.o.): If you're for real, you're looking at a million credits for viewing rights alone. Doesn't include touring and guest lectures. When can you get them here?

Yllo: I'll reset our course . . . 3 hours?

Perez(v.o.): See you then . . . doctor.

Yllo's face glows with thoughts of fame and fortune.

QUICK CUT TO:

INT.  HALL OUTSIDE YLLO'S QUARTERS

Janessa has hooked up a small device to the door. She's heard every word.

INT.  STONEY'S CABIN

Kkinsa rips off Stoney's shirt. Stoney grab her and rolls on top of her.

INT.  LAB TWO

CLOSE ON JASON'S HAND - it curls, the frozen joints CRACKLE.

Adrienne turns from Jason's mask. A large wad of goo hits the floor. She turns back to her work. Slicing flesh away from the mask.

INT.  STONEY'S CABIN

Stoney and Kkinsa kiss passionately as they wrestle to get each other's pants off.

INT.  LAB TWO

Adrienne tries to pry the Mask off . . . but it holds firm.

She stick s a long sharp tool into an eye hole. We hear disgusting noises as she probes JASON'S EYE SOCKET.

She removes the tool, and on the end is Jason's eye!

Holding it close she looks at it. It is bloated and distorted. She drops it in a specimen jar and takes it over to her work station.

INT.  STONEY'S CABIN

Kkinsa rolls on top of Stoney. She holds his arms down as she whispers in his ear.

Kkinsa: How bad do you want it?

Stoney gets his arms free and rolls on top of her.

INT.  LAB TWO

Jason's leg jerks!:

Adrienne turns again, then approaches.

Adrienne: Interesting. Record. Thawing has caused possible muscle spasms.

She frowns at the disgusting ooze. A mixture of swamp waters, blood, and other thawing bodily fluids, puddle around Jason's body.

She moves back to her work station and picks up JASON'S BLOATED EYE. She takes out an autopsy laser and cuts through the center of the eye.

The laser slices through the fatty tissue as thick black goop drips out of the eye. Adrienne stares into a microscope. This is all very interesting.

INT.  STONEY'S CABIN

Stoney lies on top of Kkinsa.

Kkinsa: Yes . . . yes . . . that's it!

. . . a moment, then both GASP as he enters her.

INT.  LAB TWO

Jason sits up!:

CLOSE on ADRIENNE as she studies the dripping eye. She puts the laser down and turns to the slab and freezes.

Jason is gone!:

She spins around only to find Jason standing behind her. He grabs her by the throat! She can't scream. She kicks wildly as he studies her.

QUICK CUT TO:

INT.  LAB ONE

Delongpre, Boemen, Kay-Em 14 and Thorgan wait and watch girl in the NANO-GEL. Thorgan is getting impatient. He can't find something.

Thorgan: Anybody seen the reticulator?

INT.  LAB TWO

Adrienne is thrown into a work light. The room goes dark.

INT.  LAB ONE

Delongpre: Try next door, there was one there yesterday.

Thorgan exits.:

INT.  LAB TWO'S OBSERVATION ROOM

The lights go. Thorgan looks around. Through the thick glass, where JASON is killing Adrienne, is blackness.

Thorgan: Wakey wakey love birds . . . Yllo's gonna be pissed if he catches you fooling around instead of working.

Thorgan roots through a drawer, his back to the glass.

Ante room:

Through the glass beside him we see Adrienne screaming. But NO SOUND. All rooms are air tight. Her head is smashed on the glass!

Still screaming, her face recedes back into the darkness as Thorgan looks over his shoulder.

Thorgan: Bye, lovebirds . . . Stoney, you dog.

He exits.:

Back to jason:

As he - -

DUNKS Adrienne's head INTO ONE OF THE METAL SINKS. Her body goes limp. He pulls her head up and stares at her frozen head, eyes open, mouth locked in a scream.

He thumps the head against a wall. IT SHATTERS! Jason drops the body with a thud then turns to the - -

DISSECTION TOOLS. He chooses a long silver cleaver.

Jason's back!:

EXT.  LAB ONE CORRIDOR

Jason walks into the corridor from LAB TWO, steam still rising from his cold body. He heads away from LAB ONE as soon as he's out of sight, YLLO appears.

INT.  LAB ONE

Delongpre wakes as Yllo enters.

Yllo: All right, lets do this. Thorgan begin the Defib program, Delongpre, ready the drainage units. Boerman get the others in here.

Boeman grabs a wall mike.

INT.  STONEY'S CABIN

Kkinsa straddles stoney.:

Boeman(v.o.): We've got a heartbeat!

Her back arches in ecstasy.

Kkinsa: No shit, we've got a heart beat!

Boeman(v.o.): Stoney, you copy? She's awake. You coming?

Stoney: Hell yeah I'm coming!

Kkinsa: No . . . not yet!

Boeman(v.o.): Yes, right now!

Stoney: YES !!!

Kkinsa: NO!!! NO!!! NO!!! YES!!!

Stoney: YES!!!!!!

Boeman(v.o.): Stoney, put your pants on and get your ass down here!

They jump up grab their clothes and rush to the door. Stoney hits the door release and the door SWISHES open revealing - -

Jason voorhees!:

Standing in the hall. He swings the silver cleaver.

Stoney sidesteps as Kkinsa SCREAMS. Stoney SLAMS his palm into the door panel. The door SWISHES to close but Jason's hand reaches out and stops it.

ENGINES WINE as JASON STRUGGLES to force the door open.

Stoney keeps POUNDING the panel, trying to make the door close but Jason's too strong!

Jason grabs Stoney by the arm, jerks him into the doorway and releases the door.

The door closes! Splitting Stoney from forehead to crotch!

Splashed with blood, Kkinsa falls to the floor cowering . . . mumbling nonsensically.

INT.  LAB ONE

Yllo, Janessa, Thorgan, Boemen and Delongpre anxiously huddle around the Frozen Girl's body. Probes dangle in the gel.

Yllo: It's time.

Delongpre: What about the others? Shouldn't we wait?

Yllo: I've waited long enough. Kay . . . you know what to do.

Kay presses buttons. We hear the whine of something powering up . . .

Brodski enters the lab.

Yllo: What the hell are you doing?

Brodski: My job.

Yllo: Fine, just stay out of my way. (turns to Kay) Hit it.

An electrical noise flares THE SCREEN TO WHITE:

SMASH CUT TO:

INT.  DARK CORRIDOR

OUR VIEW FROM A JERKY POV

Running, freshly killed bodies at our feet. HEAVY BREATHING.

Small fists beat against a door.

Girl's voice: Mom! Dad! It's loose! He's loose!

The door swishes open revealing the dead bodies of a couple in their forties.

CLOSE ON THE GIRL

We recognize her as the frozen girl. Her name, RIZZO (18), pretty. She screams. Turns.

Her pov:

Standing at the end of the corridor, back lit and ominous is JASON VOORHEES! He marches towards her.

She runs. Snatches a headset from a wall mount.

Rizzo: Help me! Anyone! Somebody help me!

STATIC from the radio. Jason closing.

She reaches down and grabs a shot gun from a dead Security Guard. Chick- chick. KABLAM!

Jason keeps coming.:

She runs.:

As she rounds a corner, we  see - -

Cryogenics lab:

She opens the door and enters the cold room. Slips on the wet frozen ground, nearly falls.

ON JASON as he rounds the corner, sees the open door.

INT.   CRYO LAB

Jason enters, his machete held ready. He stares at the Huge Cryo unit. Door open. Otherwise the room is empty.

Rizzo(o.s.): Hey!

Jason turns. Rizzo is standing in the hall, the shotgun ready.

Rizzo: You son of a bitch!

KABLAM! Jason slides backwards on the slick floor.

KABLAM! Further, he nearly falls.

KABLAM! He stumbles, falls backwards into the cryo-unit.

Rizzo slams her palm onto a console, the Cryo-unit door closes, JASON INSIDE.

RIZZO tosses the gun to the floor and types on a keypad.

Steam HISSES, engines hum to life. The Cryo-Unit, Bucks violently.

Computer voice: Cryo-Unit activated.

Slowly the unit goes silent, still. Rizzo stares at it, approaches slowly, staring at the fogging glass -


Ka-ching!:

The MACHETE BURSTS THROUGH THE GLASS, slicing into Rizzo's shoulder!

ALARMS SOUND. The cryo lab's main door SLAMS shut.

Computer voice: Cryo-Unit leak. Lock down in progress. Security measures on line.

Rizzo: Nooooooo!

She rushes toward the door. It won't budge.

Rizzo: Somebody! No!

Chshshshshsh!:

Gas filters into the room from the leak in the Cryo-Unit.

Computer voice: Subject in computer unit has reached full incubation.

Rizzo begins to fade. She stumbles.

Rizzo: No . . .

Cryo gas rolls along the floor . . .

As blood pours from her wound, she reaches her bloody hand to the glass window and draws -

A SKULL AND CROSSBONES.

-then passes out.:

INT.  LAB ONE

RIZZO'S EYES pop open. She gasps for breath. Coughing and splitting the Gel-like substance. She's sitting in a foot of gel, naked; Yllo, Brodski and the kids around her.

Thorgan: That one did it!

Yllo moves close to Rizzo.

Yllo: We should expect a moment of disorientation.

WHAM! Rizzo punches Yllo in the nose.

Delongpre: Spunky . . .

Yllo: She broke my fucking nose!

Kay-em 14: Again proving that your ancestors were savages.

Brodski: I like her already.

Kay-em 14: Live signs full strength. Heart rate above normal -

Rizzo's disoriented, confused. Gel slops all around her.

Rizzo: Where..? Who . . .? (shock) I'm alive. You brought me back.

Yllo: (rubbing his nose) Obviously so.

Rizzo looks down at her body, gel dripping off her naked flesh.

Rizzo: What the hell is this shit?

Delongpre gives her a blanket. She covers herself.

Rizzo: How did I get here, how did you bring me back?

Yllo: Nanotechnology.

Rizzo: Nano...but nanotechnology is impossible.

Yllo: We've had Nano-Tech for the last 30 years.

Rizzo: 30? How long was I out?

Rizzo finally takes a good look at where she is. Something is very wrong in her world.

Yllo: The year is 2455. You've been frozen for the past four hundred years.

Rizzo gasps -- a shocking revelation.

Yllo: Now lay back we need to do some tests and I have some questions...

Rizzo: JASON?! WHERE IS HE?!

Thorgan: The hockey player? He a friend of yours?

Rizzo: Hockey player? He's not a ...

Thorgan: He's dead! Everyone's dead! Old Earth is dead!

Rizzo: Old Earth?

Yllo: We need to do some tests...I'd like to ask you a few questions.

Rizzo: But...I...400 years?

Yllo: That's right, now if you could...

Delongpre frowns at Yllo and moves to Rizzo.

Delongpre: It can wait. Let's get you cleaned up.

Delongpre helps Rizzo off the table.

Yllo: Wait a minute...I need...

Brodski: Give it a rest Yllo. She needs some time.

Delongpre: Come on.

INT.  LAB FOUR

Rizzo stands at a small window looking out into space. Cleaned up she is quite beautiful.

Delongpre(v.o.): Rizzo?

Rizzo is startled. She looks around.

Rizzo: Yeah?

Delongpre comes through the door with a plate of food.

Delongpre: I thought that after 400 hundred years, you just might have a little bit of an appetite.

He puts the food on a small table and moves to the window.

Delongpre: You're on Grendel, a class IV Catamaran transport. It's basically a school bus. We're on our way back to Earth II. It's finals week.

She turns back to the window.

Rizzo: You're telling me I'm a friggen class project?

Delongpre flinches, expecting to be hit.

Delongpre: (a beat) Sort of. I mean, no, not really ...

She collapses onto the bed.

Delongpre: I'll give you a moment alone. Do you want me to come get you when we start the dissection?

Rizzo shrugs. She's lost everyone and everything. She's lot 400 years.

Delongpre backs out of the room, closing the door behind him.

Rizzo stares at the pile of her old clothes. She reaches into the pocket of her tattered jacket and removes a set of keys. The key chain holds a picture...a picture of her parents. She sits on the bed and starts to cry.

INT.  LAB ONE

As Delongpre enters all eyes turn to him.

Yllo: Well?

Delongpre: She needs a little time.

Yllo: More time...shit, she's had 400 years...

Yllo laughs at his own joke.

Delongpre: That's really funny.

Yllo: I'd want her statements before we reach porch. Jesus, women.

Delongpre: Yeah, like you'd be a rock after everything she went through?

Rizzo(o.s.): Dissection?

Theyturn. Rizzo approaches Delongpre and Yllo.

Rizzo: Jason? He's on this ship?!

Yllo: Of course he is. He's the most relevant find in 400 years...except for you, of course. Look if you're worried about PR don't be. You're walking and talking.  He's a stiff. You'll get the publicity.

Rizzo: (glares) Are you finished?

Yllo nods then --

Wham!:

Rizzo punches him again.

Yllo: God damnit! Will you stop doing that?!

Delongpre: Oh I like her a lot.

Brodski: I'm with you kid.

Rizzo: Where is he?

Brodski: (points) Lab two, relax. What's the matter? He's dead.

Rizzo: No, you're dead! You're all dead!

She shoves Delongpre out of the way and out the door.

INT.  LAB TWO - MOMENTS LATER

The others enter to find Rizzo leaning over Adrienne's headless body.

Yllo: Jesus!

Janessa: Oh my God! Adrienne?

Thorgan: What have you done?

Rizzo: What have I done?! Idiots.

Thorgan throws up.:

Boeman: (into a mike) Brodski! Get to Lab two. We have an emergency!

Delongpre: Er, guys. Where's the Hockey Player?

Rizzo: I'll tell you where he is. He's walking around this ship, killing anything that moves.

Janessa: Maybe she tripped.

Brodski and Kicker burst into Lab Two, they react to the carnage.

Brodski: Jesus, God!

Kicker: Oh man, what the hell happened?

Rizzo: Jason! Can't you see? He did this.

Yllo: Impossible! He was dead before he entered Cryo-statis. There is no possible way he could be alive.

Rizzo: I didn't say he was alive.

CUT TO:

INT.   GRID 52

Azrael moves through a maze of walls and pipes. Stea, HISSES lights STROBE.

He's dressed in full military garb, a huge gun strapped to his hsoulder.

Stalking pov:

Something watching Azrael, his back to us. Azrael moves. The stalker closes in.

Suddenly Azrael hits, rolls and comes up Blasting right at us.

His pov:

A HUGE ALIEN CREATURE, fangs, claws and so on, leaps at him. THe big blaster hits home. The alien DISINTERGRATES.

Sitting on the floor, Azrael sighs and wipes his brow.

SUddenly, another alien rises up behind him with a hideos Screech. There's nothing Azrael can do. He's a goner. Then --

FZZT! A blast from elsewhere DISINTERGRATES THE CREATURE. MOVE TO REVEAL--

DALLAS, the grunt Azreael had words with earlier.

Dallas: That's nine to four, geek-boy.

Azrael: You got lucky.

Dallas: You got lucky. I could have waited until he ate your head.

Azrael: Speaking of which, duck!

Dallas hits the deck as Azrael FIRES, disintegrating another. Beyond it lunge a half dozen more.  Dallas and Azrael scramble to their feet, take aim, when --

ONE OF THE ALIENS IS CUT IN HALF!

GREEN GOO squirts from its body.

Azrael: What the?!

Jason voorhees:

SLASHES THROUGH another alien, splitting it down the middle. Then another.

Dallas: He's good.

Azrael smiles knowingly. He takes aim and lets loose a blast at Jason. Aliens scatter as the blasts hits Jason dead on. Dallas joins in unloading on the hulinking terror.

THeir assault has no effect on Jason whatsoever.

Dallas: That sucks. Why won't he go down?

Azrael: Pause play.

Suddenly the aliens freeze in place. Jason stares at them, then turns to Dallas and Azrael.

Dallas: He's not part of the program.

Azrael: Hey cool. They brought ancient hockey guy back to life.

Jason walks up to them. Titls his head like a dog hearing a high-pitched whistle.

Why aren't they running.

Azrael: Hey! We're playing a game here. Get off the court!

Jason raises his silver blade high.

Dallas: No, we're playing a game...not you numbnuts...

SLASH! The blade slices through Azrael's shoulder to the bottom of his rib cage. Blood spurts as his right side pulls away from his body. Azrael does not seem hurt, only pissed.

Azrael: Asshole that does not count as a kill.

Dallas: Yes it does.

Azrael: Oh, come on!

JASON is confused. He spins and slashed taking Dallas' head clean off. The head falls to the ground, then Dallas speaks.

Dallas: Okay, enough of this shit.

Azrael: Alright, asshole.

The sound of an ENGINE SHUTTING DOWN.

Jason finds himself standing alone on a huge open court, all white, sterile.

No creatures, no Dallas or Azrael. A both ends of the white garganuan room we see a small tinted glass.

Azrael's voice booms over a loud speaker.

Azrael(v.o.): Clear off the court, asshole.

INT.  BOOTH ONE

Azrael sits before a huge console wearing a virtual reality suit.

INT.  BOOTH TWO

Dallas is in his own suit from the opposite booth.

Dallas: I don't have all day, kid.

Azrael: Yeah yeah I better call the labs, see what the hell is going on.

Jason stares at the tinted glass of Azrael's booth.

Azrael: (into mike) Lab...this is AZ in the game grid. Your guy got out and runined our game.

INTERCUT AS NECESSARY:

INT   LAB TWO

The reaction to the broadcast.

Yllo: Azrael can you repeat that?

Rizzo: Get him out of there!

Azrael: (into mike) I said the guy in the mask is in here ruining our game.

Jason starts to close in on Azrael's pod.

Azrael: (continuing) Send someone to the grid to pick him up. He looks lost.

Yllo: That's impossible.

Rizzo: I told you! Get them out of there! (grabs mike) Get out of there! Get out of there now!

Azrael: (into mike) All right fine, we'll head back--

Suddenly, JASON shoves his fist through the glass.

Dallas: Jesus!

The sounds of Azrael's DEATH broadcast over the lab.

When Jason retrieves his hand, he holds a bloody mass of Azrael's insides.

IN THE LAB, Brodski takes charge.

Brodski: Dallas! That you? Come back!

Dallas: (into mike) Sarge! Get the fuck down here! We got a real shitstorm in the --

DALLAS fights to get out of his virtual reality suit and get himself into combat mode...BUT...

JASON hears the movement. Turns, flings his silver blade.

It flies across the room, throught the glass and impales Dallas' throat to his chair.

The blade shrots out the electronics in the grid and plunges the room to black.

INT.  LAB TWO

As the connection goes to static.

Brodski: (into mike) Dallas?! Dallas?! Do you copy?

Nothing. finally...:

Rizzo: He's dead. They're both dead. You don't understand what is on this ship. This is a being that kills. That's what he does. That's all he does. And he is very good at it.

Brodski: Kicker, Sven. Get into the grid and tell me what the hell is going on!

She gets up and heads for the door.

Delongpre: Where are you going?

Rizzo: We have to get off this ship.

Yllo who has been losing control takes on the lead again.

Yllo: That's ridiculous. You're overreacting.

Rizzo: Why don't you get it? He's going to kill us all!

Brodski: I doubt that. I think we can handle whatever your ancient hockey player can throw at us.

Rizzo: Look! Just get everyone together, get off the ship... and then blow it to kingdom fucking come! That's the only way you're going to live.

Delongpre: You just need to relax. Rizzo ti's the future. We have soldiers on board, E-X Grunts, the baddest of the bad...and their weapons? I'm sure are slightly more advanced than what you're used to.

Rizzo: I hope so.

EXT.  GAME GRID CORRIDOR

Sven and Kicker approach the door. Casually, weapons slung low. The doors hiss open, the black maw of the game grid on the other side.

Kicker: Damn. Are they playing?

Sven: Dallas?! Azrael!

Their combat sense perks up a bit. Something's not right. They turn on their lights and ready their weapons.

INT.  GAME GRID

WIDE:  Hard beams of light search for anything.

Sven, as his beam hits Azrael's pod.

Sven: Oh shit.

From inside pod as Sven and Kicker approach. THe blood splattered inside the glass glows in the throws of their lights.

Kicker breaks off to inspect the other POD Sven tries to hold down his lunch.

Sven: Sarge, this is bad. The kid's His guts are ripped out.

Brodski: (over radio) Dead?

Sven: Oh yeah.

Kicker reaches the other POD. the darkness looms behind him as he finds his friend. KICKER (into radio) Sarge, this is Kicker. Dallas got it to. Real slice and dice. What should we do?

INT.  LAB TWO

Everyone is in shock except Brodski...he's a pro.

Brodski: Report to weapons. We're going on a hunt.

KICKER IN THE GRID

Kicker: Roger that. (to himself) Time to kick some ass!

From behind him a shape materializes. A hand reaches out of the darkness.

KICKER JUMPS! Spins around with his weapon at the ready!

It's sven!:

Sven: Sorry!

Kicker: Don't friggen do that!

INT.  LAB TWO

Brodski is in assault mode.

Brodski: Yllo, what's your head count?

Yllo: Looks like we're missing two. Stone and Kkinsa.

Janessa: You know, Stoney's done everyone on this trip but me..what's up with that?

Brodski scans the room - a tactical assessment.

Brodski: This place should be safe. Get them back here. I don't want to be hunting around and kill one of your kids by accident. As much as I've dreamed of doing that.

Brodski goes to Rizzo while Yllo buzzes Stoney's cabin.

Brodski: I need to know what you know about this guy.

Rizzo: Don't go out there. You can't win. We need to get off this ship. That's all there is to it.

Brodski: Not an option. I'm going to hunt this son of a bitch down.

Rizzo shakes her head. She can't get through to this guy.

Brodski: I've been a grunt for fifteen years. There's not a problem I can't fix with enough ammunition.

Yllo is getting no response.

Yllo: Stoney! Stoney if you can hear me, get your ass down to the lab immediately! (beat) I'm going to see if I can find them.

Yllo opens the door and Kkinsa is there! Half-naked, covered in blood. Janessa SCREAMS and the others gasp.

Kkinsa falls to the floor..whimpering, in shock. Boeman rushes over to her with a blanket.

Kkinsa: Sstoney's dead!

They all look to each other, searching for what to say or do...Rizzo puts her head in her hands...not again.

INT.  CORRIDOR

Brodski double-checks his sidearm as Yllo follows him down the hall.

Yllo: ALL I'm saying is dock with Space Lab, couple of hours no more. Let them take a look at our friends.

Brodski: Not a chance.

Yllo: JUst don't go in there half cocked. You guys have a tendency to blow shit up and ask questions later.

Brodski: You got that right.

They arrive at the door of the WEAPONS ROOM.

Yllo: This thing could be worth a great deal.... scientifically...not to mention what the fat cats on Earth II would pay for it! Look, I'll split it with you 50/50...

The door opens. The E-X Grunts are all there. Weapons in a rack on one wall. They are in various states of battle dresss. Yllo follows Brodski in. Brodski turns and faces him, his men behind.

Brodski: You sumbitch! Three dead! On my watch! If that...that thing is out there, it's dead! You got it!!!

Kicker: Fuckin A...

Brodski: Now get out of our way...get back to the lab and baby sit your snot nosed brats... we've got a job to do!

INT.  LAB ONE

Yllo enters pissed off. The others are standing around not sure what to do.

Yllo: That bastard! Boemen turn on the tracking monitors.

Rizzo walks over to Kay-em 14. Thorgon is working on her.

Rizzo: Robot huh?

Kay-em 14: Kay-em 14.

Rizzo: Barbie from hell...

Kay-em 14: Cybernetics science droid, fluent in over six...

Rizzo: Yeah 3cpo, I saw STAR WARS, now how about you help me get out of this coffin, Barbie...

Kay-em 14: I'm afraid I cannot assist.

Rizzo is very frustrated.

Rizzo: I'm surrounded by idiots.

Kay-em 14: You need to get laid!

Thorgon looks up from his work.

Thorgon: Sorry, I'm working on it.

Delongpre: Are all twenty-first century girls like you?

Rizzo: He'll kill us all. You know that, don't you?

An alarm sounds.:

Thorgon: (re:monitor) There's been an unauthorized entrance to the Cargo Bay.

Brodski: Got it! Let's move out girls. Yllo go to Lab two and cover out backs.

Yllo: (into the mic) At least try to get him alive...will ya Brodski?

Brodski (v.o.): I'll try.

CUT TO:
INT. CARGO DOOR - MIDSHIP

kicker, sven, CONDOR, BRIGGS, and GEKO are locked and loaded. Dressed in full armor, packing massive high tech weaponry, they are a sight to see. Jason may have met his match.

Brodski: Alright, the teach requests we take this guy out at the knees. I say shoot to kill.

The boys fidget with excitment. Bout time they see some action.

Brodski: So after you've killed him, put one in his knee so we can say we tried.

The men LAUGH and high five.

Brodski: Go to infrared, stay in radio contact. (into headset) Teach you there?

INT.  LAB ONE

Yllo walks in and sits at a bank of monitors. Through one, we see the team standing at the cargo doors.

Yllo: Yeah, I got ya. I don't see anything inside though.

Brodski(v.o.): You just keep an eye out.

Yllo: Yeah yeah. Got it.

Yllo removes his head set and quickly turns to a separate console. He has his own agenda.

INT.  CARGO DOOR - MIDSHIP

Brodski: Let's move out.

The doors HISS open.

INT. CARGO BAY

A massive room. Boxes stacked hihg, some to the ceilin,g creating a maze.

Brodski: Two teams, Port, starboard.

They split up.:

INT. LAB ONE

The kids are standing at a schematic of the ship. Several small blips are entering the cargo area.

Brodski(v.o.): Kicker, anything?

Kicker(v.o.): Negative.

Rizzo stands over Thorgan to see the monitor.

Thorgan: Each blip represents a trained killer. It's men like that fought off the pirates on Earth II, battled Jauntuns on the solar moons...

For the moment, Rizzo looks distantly hopeful.

Rizzo: So, you're saying thse guys have like, lasers and stuff? They could hack him to pieces?

Thorgan: Exactly.

INT.  CARGO BAY - PORT SIDE

Briggs and Geko move side by side. Condor brings up the rear. Suddenly he is jerked out of view.

CLOSE ON CONDOR'S FACE, jason's hand around his throat. SNAP. The eyes go dead, the neck broken.

INT. LAB ONE

Rizzo sees something. Her hopes fade.

Rizzo: WHAT'S IT MEAN WHEN ONE OF YOUR BLIPS DISAPPEARS?

All eyes turn to the schematic as one of the blips FLICKERS and FADES.

Kay-em 14: E-x Grunt Condor has flatlined.

Boeman: (into mic) Sergeant, this is Boemen...

INT.  CARGO BAY - STARBOARD

Sergeant brodski stops.:

Boeman(v.o.): You've lost Condor.

Brodski: Briggs, Geko, talk to me!

INT.  CARGO BAY - PORT SIDE

Briggs and Geko stare at each other.

Briggs: He was...he was right here!

Back to brodski:

Brodski: DAMNIT to hell! We're coming to you!

INT.  LAB ONE

A BLIP flashes for a second on the screen.

Thorgan: You see that?

Boeman: Briggs, Geko, movement beyond the boxed fuselage.

INT. CARGO BAY - PORT SIDE

Briggs: Got it.

BRIGGS and GEKO split up, moving around a large metallic tank.

Briggs infared pov:

Gun ready, he moves around the crated fuselage slowly.

Briggs: I don't see anything.

INT.  LAB ONE

The blip flashes again.

INT.  CARGO BAY - PORT SIDE

Boeman(v.o.): He's right there! In front of you!

INFARRED POV reveal GEKO moving toward him.

Briggs: That's GEKO. mAYBE you kids should stay out of this.

Briggs removes his gogles only to find Jason standing before him, holding Geko's body...impaled onto his silver blade.

Briggs fires...screams.:

INT.  LAB ONE

Briggs(v.o.): He doesn't show up on...

PAINFUL GURGLES then two more blips disappear.

Thorgan: (turns) Jesus, is this what it was like on your...

Rizzo is cowering on the floor, her hands over her ears. She's sweating, convulsing.

Boeman: Sergeant, you've lost two more men!

INT. CARGO BAy - PORTSIDE

Brodski and his remaining men double-time-it to the slaughter. Briggs and Geko lie dEAD AT THEIR FEET.

Kicker: Jesus, Sarge, what is this thing?

Brodski: Teach! Where the hell are you?! Where's our visuals?!!

INT. LAB TWO

Yllo is talking on  aseparate mike. Unwaakre of the slaughteri n the next room.

Yllo: Fat Lou, we're changing courses for the Solaras Space Lab.

Fat lou(v.o.): I'll need the sergeant's okay on that.

Yllo: We've got a situation here! Just do as  you're told!

Fat lou(v.o.): Alright, relax. 20 minutes. Soon as we've passed Tara's rings we'll make the course correction.

Back to yllo.:

Yllo: Thank you.

Yllo disconnects, and turns to the other console.

Yllo: (into mic) Ok Sarge, what's your status?

Brodski(v.o.): wHAT'S My status?! I've lost three men and your worthless fuck! After I kill this asshole I'm coming your Yllo!

Yllo: But I didn't see...

INT.  CARGO BAY - PORT SIDE

Gunfire erupts!:

Sven(v.o.): I got him! I got him!

INT. LAB ONE

CHEERS from everyone except Rizzo who knows better. She shakes her head.

Thorgan: Yes!

Rizzo: Listen up duck fuckers, you can't kill this thing.

Boeman: Duck fuckers?

Rizzo: He's either unconcious or playing dead, whichever, he ain't really dead. Okay, you know , that's it for me. I'm outta here.

Delongpre: Outta here?

Rizzo: Isn't there an escape POD on this ship? Something?

Thorgon: There's a shuttle.

Rizzo: Alright, been nice knowing you. Who's with me?

Kkinsa: I'll go.

Boemen: Yllo said stay here.

Kkinsa: Fuck Yllo!

Boemen: They got him! You're not leaving!

INT. CARGO BAY - MIDSHIP

Sven is kneeling over Jason's body.

Sven: Big sucker too.

Suddenly, Jason reaches up, grabs the back of Sven's head and SLAMS it into his mask. Sven's forehead shatters.

On brodski:

As he races around a crate. Sven's body is within sight. His killer nowhere to be seen.

Brodski: Kicker? Where are you?

Elsewhere we hear GUNFIRE followed closely by a SCREAM!

Elsewhere:

Kicker crawls across the floor, blood spews from his mouth.

PULL BACK TO RVEAL

He's been split in half at the wait...his entrails dragging behind him.. SHUNK! A machete throught the back of the neck puts him out of his misery.

INT. LAB ONE

Rizzo: Do something!!!

Thorgon: Don't look at me! I'm in high school!

INT. CARGO BAY

Brodski runs. He's spooked. Twisting and turning in every direction.

Brodski: Find Crutch! Set up an ion field around the cargo bay. We'll torch the sucker! Yllo...you're a dead man!

Brodski races toward the Cargo exit.

INT.  LAB TWO

On monitor:

We see Brodski racing towards us. We also see Jason, lying in wait, hidden by one of the crates.

Yllo: Sergeant!

Brodski: (stops) What?

Yllo considers then.: YLLO Nothing.

On the monitor we see Brodski move forward. He never saw Jason coming. BRODSKI SCREAMS.  Yllo turns his head.

INT.  LAB ONE

The kids stand in shock, silently staring at one another, listening to the static of the dead communications. Boeman reaches over and clicks off the radio. Silence.  Rizzo leaps to her feet.

Rizzo: Lesson number one, kiddies. You wanna get home safely then we get off this boat.

Kkinsa starts t cry.

Kkinsa: I don't understand...what does he want?

Rizzo: He wants to kill you...and me...and everyone on this ship.

Rizzo looks at everyone.

Rizzo: Any questions?

A side door HISSES OPEN. Yllo enters.

Yllo: You're not going anywhere.

Rizzo: You wanna die?

Yllo: (ignores her) Are we locked down?

Boeman: That door's the only way in or out and it won't open without the code.

Yllo: Then we wait. We're docking with Space Lab in less than an hour.

Rizzo: What good will that do?

Yllo: They can deal with this sort of thing.

Rizzo: More soldiers?

Yllo: Scientists. Very intellegent men.

Rizzo: That's great. I bet they'll kick Jason's ass at a spelling bee!

Janessa: Look ice chip, why don't you just chill out and let us handle this?

Yllo: Try to calm down. Just think, you're going to be famous!

Rizzo: (to kids) Guys, please come with me!

Yllo: 4You're not going anywhere.

Rizzo starts for the door but Yllo grabs her arms, holds them behind her.

Delongpre: Now hold on! We should hear her out!

Thorgan: She's obviously dealt with this guy before.

Yllo: Shut up! She just wants this thing dead!

Delongpre: No shit. I got no problem with that.

Janessa readies a hypo.

Thorgan: Maybe if we knew a little bit more about what we're delaing with here...

Janessa moves behind Rizzo with the sedative.  Suddenly Rizzo throws her head back, Salmming it into Yllo's nose. He CRIES OUT in pain.

Janessa lunges with the syringe but Rizzo snatches her wrist, grabbing the hypo, burying it into Janessa's left breast.

Rizzo: tNighty-night.

Janessa collapses.  Yllo rushes Rizzo again, but this time Boeman stands, blocks his path.

Crutch: Leave her be.

Rizzo: Ok, who do I gotta fuck to get off this boat?

Thorgan timidly raises his hand.

Rizzo: Listen to me. Please. Let's get off thsi ship. Come with me.

Thorgan: Rizzo, a shuttle out in the middle of space? We'll die oout there.

Rizzo rushes the door. There's a code box on the wall.

Rizzo: How do you open the damn door?

Yllo: You're crazy!

Kkinsa punches in the code. The door HISSES open.

Delongpre: Rizzo, he's out there.

Rizzo: Yeah and he'll be here soon enough. (looks at Delongpre) Last chance.

The others stare at her. She's crazy.

Rizzo: Fine. Bye.

She and Kkinsa exit, the door SWISHES CLOSED behind them.

Yllo: (favoring his nose) Pack your shit. We'll disembark in an hour. The guys at Space Lab have the necessary equipment to contain this thing and then we can study it.

But the kids aren't so sure.

INT.  LAB TWO

Yllo enters, makes sure he wasn't followed then approaches a console.

Yllo: Computer on line.

A series of beeps.

Janessa(o.s.): What are you doing?

Yllo: (jumps) Jesus! Can't you knock? (back to console) Diminish power to shutttle Beowulf.

Computer voice: Power to Beowulf disengaged.

Yllo: (to Janessa) She's too valuable. She's not leaving this ship.

CUT TO:

INT. GRENDEL BRIDGE

Fat Lou and Bernie prepare for course corrections.

Fat lou: Disengage auto-pilot.

Bernie: Disengaged.

Fat lou: New COURSE, seven-eighty-one.

EXT.  GRENDEL CLASS IV

She banks slowly to the right.

INT.  GRENDEL BRIDGE

Bernie: On course. ETA 36 minutes, 34 seconds.

Fat lou: Engage auto pilot.

Suddenly, Bernie is ripped from his chair! Electricity SHOOTS through the console as Bernie's DIALOG becomes jibberish.

Bernie: En-en-en-en...Eta-Eta...

Fat Lou stares up in shock just before JASON SLAMS Bernie's torso ontop of her.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

FAT LOU'S upper body has disappeared. In other words, Bernie now has legs. Little good they'll do him.

Through windshield.:

Far in the distance we see a tiny space station -- SPACE LAB. A monitor reads ...

SPACE LAB ETA 00:35:59 and counting.

CUT TO:

INT.  CARGO BAY

Rizzon and Kkinsa enter.

Rizzo: Which way?

Kkinsa points. They head in that direction. Then Rizzo suddenly stops.

Kkinsa: What?

Rizzo: Ssh.

Rizzo pulls Kkinsa close to one of the crates.

Rizzo: He's in here.

Kkinsa opens her mouth to scream. Rizzo slaps her hand over Kkinsa's mouth.

Rizzo: You scream I'll snap your neck. Got it?

Kkinsa nods. Rizzo releases her.

Kkinsa: (whispers) How do you know?

Rizzo: (dread) I just know.

INT.  LAB ONE

The crew has packed their essentials and now wait to dock with Space Lab. Yll is standing before the others holding Jason's machete.

Yllo: We must assume the machete was an intricate part of the game of hockey.

Delongpre: I'm thinking Rizzo was right.

Yllo: Thinking with your dick again, Delongpre?

Delongpre: Maybe we should go with them. Like you said, your Space Lab connections can deal with this thing. At least we'll be safe.

Yllo: They are not going anywhere. I cut power to the  shuttle.

The kids and Crutch stare at him. Cold hearted.

INT.  SHUTTLE DOCKING BAY

Rizzo and Kkinsa approach.

Rizzo: Open the doors.

Kkinsa punches in a series of buttons. Nothing.

Kkinsa: Something's wrong.

Rizzo: Keep trying!

INT.  LAB ONE

Yllo: Everyone ready?

Yllo grabs a mike from a console.

Yllo: Fat Lou, what's the ETA?

Static.:

Yllo: Lou, goddamjnit! Bernie, where's Lou?!

Static.:

Boeman moves to one of the consoles, clicks a few buttons.

On monitor:

We see the view from the bridge security camera. Lots of blood and the mangled combination of Lou and Bernie.

Thorgan: Yuck.

Delongpre: We're screwed.

Yllo: The ship doesn't need pilots to dock. We'll disembark and you'll see. Everything will be fine.

Boeman: Uh...that's gonna be a problem. The ship's not on auto-pilot. We're flying blind. (a beat) Thirty minutes till impact.

All eyes turn to Yllo, for guidance, his back to the outer door.

Yllo: I guess...we'll have to go to the bridge.

Thorgan: But...

Jason is out there. Then --

Wham-wham-wham!:

The outer door bucks and dents! Everyone jumps!

Wham-wham-wham!:

QUICK-CUT TO:

INT. SHUTTLE DOCKING BAY

Over the headsets, Rizzo and Kkinsa hear the SCREAMS.

Rizzo: Damnit, he's got them.

Kkinsa keeps trying the code box. Nothing.

Kkinsa: Rizzo, I think Yllo must have done something. The door won't open.

INT.  LAB ONE

Yllo: It's alright. He can't get in here!

WHAM! WHAM!!! But the door is starting to give.

Through the confusion, Crutch moves to one of the consoles. Clicks away at the keyboard.

INT.   SHUTTLE DOCKING BAY

The shuttle hums to life.

Kkinsa: The power's back up!

Rizzo: Then open the doors!

Kkinsa: Thirty seconds.

INT.   LAB ONE

Wham! wham! wham!:

Janessa: What do we do?!!

Yllo: Crutch?

Crutch: Help me up.

Boeman helps Crutch to the top of a table. Crutch goes to work on a ceiling vent, removing screws.

Janessa: Okay, I'm guessing you should hurry.

The top corner of the door bends...Jason peers through.

Thorgan: Jesus, tell this asshole I don't play hockey!

Crutch: Okay!

Our group starts climbing the table and into the ceiling space.

Yllo: Will that take us to the bridge?

Crutch: It's a maze up there, but yes.

Yllo: We'll engage auto-pilot! Everything'll be fine!

With that, the door gives!

Boeman heaves Crutch into the crawl space then follows himself.  Jason pauses, staring at Kay-Em --

Kay-em 14: Heart beat irregular...no blood flow... impossible...this....this... does not make sense.

Jason's heard enough. He swings his cleaver, but Kay-Em ducks. Turns and leaps through the hole in the celing.

INT.  CEILING WALK SPACE

Yllo grips the ledge.

Yllo: Move it people!

Then Yllo screams. Jason has him from below. Boeman grabs his arms.

Boeman: Help me!

DeLongpre grabs hold and pulls. Suddenly Yllo is jerked out of their grasp. They fall onto their backs breathing heavily.

INT.  LAB ONE

Yllo leaps to his feet. Jason looms over him.

Yllo: Now hold on! Have you considered how valuable you are? Credit, fame, you can have it all. And ladies. I mean, how long has it been?

Jason stands there, but his attention isn't on Yllo. It's on the machete sticking through Yllo's belt. Jason reaches for it. Yllo backs into a wall.

Jason slowly removes the machete from Yllo's belt and stares at it. He drops the cleaver to the ground.

Yllo: (chuckles) That's all you wanted?

INT.  SHUTTLE DOCKING BAY

The shuttle doors slide open as we hear over the headset --

Yllo(v.o.): It's okay, he just wanted his machete.

Rizzo: (knowingly) Three...two...one...

Yllo screams.:

INT.  CEILING WALK SPACE

Yllo's SCREAMS turn to GURGLES. All eyes stare at the opening in the walkway, then --

YLLO'S HEAD LANDS IN BOEMAN'S LAP!

Kay-em 14: Now that's just gross.

JASON STICKS HIS HEAD THROUGH.  EVERYONE JUMPS, SCREAMS.

Delongpre: GO, GO, GO!

They race down the walkway, over huge pipes and through electrical wires, Crutch in the lead.

INT.  SHUTTLE DOCKING BAY

Kkinsa enters the shuttle, turns to Rizzo.

Kkinsa: Rizzo, come on!

But, Rizzo hesitates. We can still hear the PANICKED SCREAMS over the headset.

Thorgan(v.o.): Go-go-go-go-go!!!!

Delongpre(v.o.): He's right behind us!

Rizzo: Damn! (to Kkinsa) Close the door! I'll be right back.

Kkinsa: (panicked) What?!!

Rizzo: I gotta go back.

Kkinsa: But?!!

Rizzo turns and races through the maze of boxes and crates leaving Kkinsa nearly insane.

INT.  CELING WALK SPACE

Kay-em 14: I'm quite sure I wasn't designed for this.

Crutch comes to a fork in the walkway.

Crutch: Okay, we need to ...

Boeman: You forgot didn't you, you old fart?

At the back of the line, Delongpre turns as Jason rounds the bend behind him.

Delongpre: Shit! Move it! He's coming!

Delongpre leaps forward creating a pile out of Janessa and Thorgan

Delongpre: Go!

Racing forward the group stays just out of Jason's grasp. Leaping over and under and through whatever blocks the path.

Delongpre: Faster!

Jason swings his machete at DeLongpre! It just misses him.

Delongpre: FASTER!!!

Crutch comes to ascreened panel. Boeman kicks it open. They leap down onto a catwalk crossing the --

INT.  CARGO BAY

They are twenty feet off the ground as --

Rizzo stops, stares straight up.

Her pov:

the group races across the catwalk as Json leaps down behind them.

Delongpre: He's right on my ass!

Then Jason grabs Delongpre, who screams.

Rizzo,:

spots a gun left by one of the marines. She snatches it, points it towards Jason and Delongpre then aims a little high.

Fzzzt!:

It slices through a metal cord holding the catwalk to the ceiling.

The catwalk jerks. Everyone tumbles. Jason loses his grip on Delongpre.

Suddenly, METAL SCREECHES, as the catwalk gives under the weight. It RIPS in half,dumping both heroes and Jason.

RIZZO dives out of the way as a pile of metal and bodies crash to the ground!

Janessa sits up rubbing her head.

Janessa: That was fun.

Kay-Em 14 sits up, sings.

Kay-em 14: I got a brand new pair of roller-skates, you got a brand new key...

Janessa: Thorgan?!

Thorgan: I didn't do it. The fall scattered her programming..wait. Where's? Shit!

He's lying on top of Jason. He scrambles to his feet. But Jason doesn't move.

Thorgan: Hey, I think the fall killed him.

The group slowly gathers around. Jason sits up and swings at Thorgan. Boeman pulls him out of the way just in time.

Jason starts to stand when RIZZO comes up behind him.

KA-FWAM! She brings the barrel of a high tech gun down on the top of Jason's head. He collapses. The surrounded faces look happily suprised.

Rizzo: Trust me, it's temporary.

Boeman takes the gun from Rizzo.

Boeman: Better let me.

Thorgan: Where'd you get the gun?

Rizzo gestures at what's left of Geko's body.

Crutch: The bridge is this way!

They take off running.

Rizzo: Wait!

Everyone stops, turns --

Kay-em 14: There's not enough time.

Rizzo catches up.:

Rizzo: Forget the bridge, the shuttle's waiting!

Boeman: (to Kay-Em) What do you mean, not enough time?

Kay-em 14: (switches voice) You know what you get if you shove two bananas up your ass? Two shit covered bananas.

Janessa: I think your metal lover's losing it.

Kay-em 14: (normal voice) Impact in ten minutes. It will take fifteen to reach the bridge. (switches voices, sings) Mamma's little baby love shortnin, shortnin, mamma's little baby love shotnin bread...

Delongpre: Well, I'm not hanging out here with Ms. Showtunes.

Rizzo: Guys!!! The shuttle?

The kids look at one another as if this were a stroke of genius.

Rizzo: Idiots.

Crutch: This way!

Crutch again leads them through the maze. Delongpre stops at another Grunt body, removes a chain gun. THorgan takes a high tech laser from another.

Thorgan: I feel better. Now how do you fire this damn thing?

Delongpre: Just go! I've a feeling he's right behind us!

Crutch: (jokingly) Just around this bend...

Jason steps out in front of Crutch, his machete held poised in front of him. Crutch runs right up onto the blade.

Boeman: Nooooo!

Alrhoguh he's meat on a stick, Crutch doesn't give up. He SLAMS his fists into Jason's torso.

Thorgan turns to fire --Boeman KNOCKS the barrel high.

Boeman: You'll hit crutch!

Boeman tosses his weapon to Janessa and leaps on Jason's back, locking his arms around his neck.

Rizzo: What are you doing? You can't save him!

Delongpre smashes the back of Jason's knee with the chaingun. Jason topples on top of Boeman. Crutch is thrown free.

Janessa and Thorgan help Crutch to his feet as Jason sees Rizzo for the first time in 400 hundred years.

It's either love at first sight or one hell of a grudge. He leaps to his feet and races towards her.

Rizzo: Don't just stand there! Shoot him!

Delongpre: (to Jason) No you don't!

Braaaaaaatttt!:

The chaingun dances Jason backwards. He CRASHES through the side of one of the cargo boxes. EVERYONE STOPS.

Rizzo: Don't stop!

She jerks the gun from Delongpre and races to the crate.

Rizzo: You never stop when he's down!

But the crate is empty.

Rizzo: Shit!!!!

They spin around, searching.

Crutch: (weak) Forget him. Come on.

Carrying Crutch, they move toward the shuttle bay.

INT. SHUTTLE DOCKING BAY

panel, clicks some buttons, then --

Boeman: Uh-oh.

Janessa: What?!

Boeman: Kkinsa! Open the doors!

INT. SHUTTLE COCKPIT


Kkinsa sits in the pilot's seat. She's terrified.

Boeman(v.o.): Kkinsa! He's coming! Open the doors!

INT.  CARGO SHUTTLE BAY

DeLongpre shoves Boeman out of the way.

Delongpre: Kkinsa, open the goddamn door!

Rizzo: Yeah, that's it, scare the hell out of here, that'll work.

INT.  SHUTTLE COCKPIT

Rizzo(v.o.): (calming) Kkinsa, it's me, Rizzo. He's not out here right now, so please let us in.

Kkinsa doesn't move.:

Rizzo(v.o.): Kkinsa, Crutch is hurt! We need access to the shuttle's med-kit or he'll die.

INT.  CARGO SHUTTLE BAY

Delongpre: Med-kit?

Rizzo: I guessed.

INT.  SHUTTLE COCKPIT

Kkinsa considers. She reaches for a button marked SHUTTLE DOORS...hesitates.

Rizzo(v.o.): We're going to be okay, Kkinsa. Just relax.

INT.  SHUTTLE DOCKING BAY

Kay-Em 14 steps forward.

Kay-em 14: Allow me. I'm trained in all aspects of the human psyche.

Rizzo backs away -- as Kay-Em nears the mike ...

Kay-em 14: Kkinsa, dear, it is I, KAY-EM 14... open the fucking door you silly bitch!

Rizzo shoves Kay-Em out of the way.

Kay-em 14: I didn't say I was good at it.

INT.  SHUTTLE COCKPIT

Thorgan(v.o.): Oh shit! There he is!

INT.  CARGO BAY SHUTTLE

Jason is standing at the entrance to the Cargo Shuttle Bay.

INT.  SHUTTLE COCKPIT

Kkinsa leans forward and presses --

Launch.:

INT.   CARGO SHUTTLE BAY

The Shuttle ROARS to life and begins pulling away from the ship.

Boeman: Kkinsa! No!!!

EXT.   GRENDEL CLASS IV

The shuttle moves slowly away from the docking position.

INT.   CARGO SHUTTLE BAY

Rizzo opens fire! Thorgan and Delongpre join in.

Another angle:

As boxes and cargo shatter under the heaby fire. Smoke rises. It's impossible to see where Jason is. RIZZO stops FIRING.

Rizzo: DON'T WASTE YOUR AMMO!

But, they don't let up. Boxes explode, crates collapse until -- Thorgan's gun clicks empty. Then Delongpre's.

Silence.:

The smoke slowly clears revealing the rubble.

Thorgan: Did we get him?

Suddenly, Jason again steps into the Cargo entrance.

Delongpre: We're screwed!

Rizzo: 400 years in the future and these pea-shooters are the best you can do?!

They are trapped. Jason blocks the only exit. He slowly moves towards them.

Rizzo: Just make a break for the door. He'll get some of us, but that's the breaks.

Boeman: We're not leaving Crutch!

Rizzo: We don't have time to argue!

But Jason has locked in on Rizzo. He moves towards her.

Janessa: Okay, tell you what. You die, we'll run.

Rizzo and the others back into a corner. Jason has them. There's nothing they can do.

Rizzo holds the gun steady, waiting for point blank range.

INT.  GRENDEL BRIDGE

Through the windshield:

SPACE LAB, which was only a dot the last time we saw it, suddenly looms toward us.

Computer voice: Collision eminent.

EXT.  GRENDEL CLASS IV

The left side of Grendel SMASHES into the side of Space Lab!

INT.  CARGO SHUTTLE BAY

Suddenly everything shifts toward the bridge. Boxes, cargo, kids, and Jason!

EXT.  GRENDEL CLASS IV

Grendel SLIDES along SPACE LAB, ripping huge chunks of metal from both. SPARK fly. There are interior EXPLOSIONS on Space Lab, then --

Ka-foom!:

Space lab explodes!:

INT.  CARGO SHUTTLE BAY

The entire ship shifts upwards. Cargo, crew, and Jason fly into the air.

ELECTRICAL fires sprout up all over. Cargo boxes SHATTER, contents SPILLING.

RIZZO loses her gun.

EXT.  GRENDEL CLASS IV

Debris from Space Lab TEARS into the side of the ship and beyond.

EXT.  SHUTTLE

One huge chunk heads right towards the Shuttle.

INT.  SHUTTLE

Kkinsa stares out the window as the huge chunk flies toward her.

EXT.  SHUTTLE

IMPACT! THE SHUTTLE IMPLODES! ONE BRIGHT RED FIREBALL.

INT.  CARGO BAY

Everything piled and in tatters. Our heroes slowly regain their bearings.

Boeman: Everyone okay?

Thorgan: I think I broke my arm.

Kay-em 14: I seem to have misplaced mine.

Kay-Em 14's right arm is missing, wires sticking out of the stump.

Janessa: You geeks wanna gimmie a hand?

Janessa is buried beneath a pile of rubble. Boeman helps her to her feet.

Delongpre: (quiet) We lost crutch.

Rizzo stands and watches as the other sgather around Crutch's body. It's battered and twisted all out of place. Boeman falls next to the body.

Boeman: Goodbye old friend.

Rizzo: Okay, he was a great guy, now let's move out.

Boeman: (snaps) Could you show a little compassion?!

Rizzo stares at Boeman.

Rizzo: Look, I'm sorry. I really am, but aren't you forgetting about ...

SUDDENLY a pile of rubble EXPLODES.

Jason rises, his back to them.

Delongpre: Back to the labs!

But Jason has other plans. Seemingly unfazed by the past events he rushes after them.

INT.  GRENDEL BRIDGE

Computer voice: Dam-damage port side 59 percent. Decompression 40 percent. Gravity-y rotors failing.

INT.  CARGO BAY

Our kids race toward the door, Jason right behind them --

Thorgan slams the door panel with his good arm. SPARKS fly. The door won't open.

Thorgan: Oh shit.

They turn as Jason looms toward them, then --

EVERYTHING STARTS TO FLOAT

Cargo and debris. Our heroes. Jason.

The loss of gravity and Jason's steamrollering momentum SLAMS him into the cargo doors, BREAKING them open and sending him tumbling backwards.

Janessa: This is just great.

Kay-em 14: Engage magnetics.

Kay-Em 14's left hand magnetically locks to the Cargo frame a

Another angle:

Jason grabs Rizzo's ankle. Boeman, floating close, punches Jason in the back of the head.

Still holding Rizzo's ankle, Jason topples, spinning the two out of frame.

The force of the punch sends Boeman in the opposite direction.

Thorgan: This is crazy, we can't do anything like this!

Another angle:

Rizzo KICKS Jason in the top of the head, sending him SLAMMING into the ceiling.

A severed arm:

floats past DeLongpre. There's a chain gun still clutched by the  hand. Delongpre grabs both and turns the gun on Jason.

Braaatttt...:

Jason is sent further back, but the force of the chaingun SLAMS Delongpre into a back wall. He's knocked unconcious.

Another angle:

As Thorgan manages to grab Kay-Em 14 around the neck.

Thorgan: Grab my hand!

Janessa takes his hand and in turn reaches out and snags the unconcious dELONGPRE'S FOOT.

Janessa: Boeman, can you reach DeLongpre? We'll push you in.

Cargo - midship:

Jason is floating toward the other end of the Cargo Bay, unable to stop himself.

Boeman:

reaches for DeLongpre. Inches away. Finally he grabs Delongpre by the locks of his hair, pulls himself closer.

Delongpre: Hey! That hurts.

Another angle:

Rizzo is floatin g up near the ceiling. She manages to grab hold of a hanging piece of busted catwalk.

Delongpre: (to Rizzo) Push off toward us.

Janessa: Forget her, she's a pain in the ass. Let her hang there.

Crutch's body floats into our heroes, his intestines spilling from his open gut, tangling around our heroes.

Thorgan: I'm gonna spew.

Janessa: That ought'a help the situation.

Delongpre: Do it Rizzo! We'll catch you.

Rizzo's pov:

Rizzo stares at the human rope that consists of Thorgan, Janessa, Boeman, and Delongpre.

Rizzo: What if you miss?

Delongpre: What if we don't?

Another angle:

AS JASON steadies himself against a wall, focuses in one Rizzo, then pushes off with his feet.

HE ROCKETS toward her!

Delongpre: He's coming right at you!

Rizzo spots Jason and pushes off! But her aim was HURRIED... and bad. She's gonna miss them.

Boeman flips in the air!

Boeman: (to Delongpre) Grab my feet!

Delongpre does and Boeman reaches out and snags Rizzo. The momentum spins the human chain into a near wall --KAFWAM-- nearly breaking it apart.

Janessa: Okay that hurt.

Boeman: Thorgan, pull us in.

Jason SLAMS into the ceiling, then careens off of the wall --

As Thorgan pulls the group out of the Cargo bay.

Thorgan: What now?

They watch as Jason grabs a hold of the walkway.

Janessa: Shit. He's gonna send himself right at us.

Jason takes aim.:

QUICK CUT TO:

INT.  GRENDEL BRIDGE

Computer voice: System repair activated. Back up power on line.

INT.  CARGO BAY

Jason again ROCKETS THROUGH THE AIR -- when

Gravity is restored.:

He drops to the cargo floor like a rock! Falling cargo -- huge crates, gargantuan machines, a forklift -- buries him.

Our heroes tumble to the ground.

Janessa: (to Rizzo) Get off of me!

They stand slowly, eyeing the rubble.

Thorgan: (rubbing his arm) You think it killed . . . (off Rizzo's stare) Yeah, I guess not.

Janessa: Let's just get out of here.

Boeman: The ship's in bad shape. Back to the labs. Let's check out status.

INT. SHIP CORRIDORS

Our group makes their way back toward the labs.

ELECTRICAL fires are everywhere. Systems are shorting out all over the ship.

INT. LAB ONE

Rizzo, in the lead, enters the lab, when the ship BUCKS and QUAKES! A portion of the hall collapses behind her.

INT. CORRIDOR

Boeman and the others dive back out of the way.

Boeman: Shit!

Thorgan: The hull's imploding!

Boeman: Rizzo! Can you hear me?!

INT.  LAB ONE

Rizzo: Yeah. Are you guys okay?

Boeman peers through a crack in the collapsed hull.

Boeman: There's a red lever on the wall beside you. Pull it!

Rizzo turns, spots the red lever. EMERGENCY PRESSURIZATION STABILIZER. It's bolted.

Rizzo: It's locked!

Boeman: Then break it! If you don't pull it, the ship's going to depressurize!

Rizzo kicsk the metal leg from a table. BASHES the bolt with it, until it breaks.

Boeman: Hurry Rizzo! You have to reverse the pressurization.

She grabs the lever...then hesitates. Backs away.

Boeman: What are you doing?!!

Rizzo: If the ship goes, so does Jaso.

Boeman: Rizzo pull the fucking lever!

Rizzo: No.

Delongpre: Rizzo?!

Rizzo: It's better this way. If we were rescued Jason would just get off the ship. You want him on your precious Earth II?

INT.  CORRIDOR

Boeman and the other start tearing the debris out of the way!

Thorgan: Hurry! She's lost it!

Janessa: So what else is new?

INT.  LAB ONE

Boeman climbs through a hole in the rubble. He grabs the lever.

Rizzo: Boeman don't. You know I'm right.

Janessa: Are you crazy?! Pull the lever!

Boeman yanks the lever.

As the others climb into the lab --

Computer voice: Depressurization inconclusive.

Kay-em 14: We've lost too much pressure. An hour, tops.

Janessa: (to Rizzo) You happy? You've killed us all!

Thorgan rushes over to the big Nano-tech machine. Places his broken arm on the slab. The machine quickly goes to work.

A schematic of his arm appears on the wall.

Janessa stares at him.

Janessa: What's the point?

Delongpre shrugs.:

Delongpre: So that's it then.

It seems it is.

Janessa stands over Yllo's decapitated body. It's obvious their relationship went beyond just teacher/student. There is a loud METALLIC WHINE from the ship's hull.

Rizzo: What's that?

Boeman: THat's the sound of deep space attacking the integrity of the ship.

Kay-em 14: No... (signing) That's the sound of the men working on the chain gang.

Rizzo: Are there any other shuttles?

Janessa: No.

Rizzo: Teleportation? Some way to beam us the hell out of dodge?

Thorgan: You read a lot of Science Fiction didn't you?

Janessa: A little late to be thinking about escape, isn't it?

Kay-em 14: I'll never experience my fantasy of three sex droids, two humans, and a Knofflapod. Damn.

Thorgan: Am I in there?

Kay-em 14: Sory...

Rizzo: Hey.

Delongpre: That's a good fantasy, though. Kinky, but good.

Rizzo: Hey!!

All heads turn to Rizzo. She's staring at a schematic of the ship. The left hull of the two hulled ship is lit up with blinking light denoting the various system failures. Rizzo points to the right hull.

Rizzo: What's this?

Delongpre: It's the engine, reactors, audiometers, it's the stuff that makes the ship go zoom.

Rizzo points at the thin walk-ways connecting the two hulls.

Rizzo: Can we get through these?

Thorgan: Sure but what good will that do?

Boeman: When the left hull goes, so will the right.

Rizzo: What if we blow the walkways first? Leave Jason over here to go up with the ship?

They stare at her.

Janessa: You know, Yllo seemed to think we could catch this guy alive, well, he'd be worth millions.

The others stare at her as if she were crazy.

Rizzo: Any connection between your reality and mine is purely coincidental.

Janessa: I'm just saying.

Rizzo: (to others) Come on. You got all these gadgets and shit. Why can't we get inside the right hull, seal up the doors and blow the walkways?

Delongpre: We'd need charges.

Boeman: We could convert fission transistors.

Thorgan: We're not supposed to do that.

Boeman: What are you gonna do, tell me?

Delongpre: The engine room will have molecular welders. We could seal up the hull.

A moment of consideration. Could this actually work?

Janessa: YeaH, GREAT IDEA! And I'll keep the big guy distracted with a blow job.

Thorgan: Would you?

Kay-em 14: Now this is getting exciting.

Delongpre: Remember to roll his balls around a bit.

Rizzo: You got a better plan?

Obviously they don't. They got to work. Boeman grabs a number of devices from under a cabinet.

Boeman: I'll need system four converters.

Thorgan: They're back here.

Delongpre: How many?

Boeman: Bring 'em all. Let's move!

Thorgan's still hooked up to the Nano-Tech machine.

Thorgan: Hey! I'm not ready.

Boeman: Then you better hurry. I'll blow alley one, Delongpre, you and Rizzo take there. Janessa you ready two and we'll meet up there.

Janessa: You're so bossy.

Thorgan: You're leaving me here alone?

Delongpre tosses the chaingun next to him.

Delongpre: Don't blow your foot off.

They climb through the hole in the corridor and disappear.

Kay-em 14: It's just you and me, then.

Thorgan: Come here, might as well fix that arm.

INT.  CARGO BAY

Boeman, Janessa, Delongpre, and Rizzo slowly move through the piles of debris. Still burning cargo creates a ghastly image of flickering shadows.

Delongpre: See anything?

They move toward the rubble that had buried Jason before.

CLOSE on the rubble.

There is an obvious hole dug out from the middle.

Delongpre: I think I speak on behalf of the group when I say this is bad news.

Boeman: (into headset) Thorgan? You coming?!

INT.  LAB ONE

Thorgan is fooling around in the back of Kay-Em 14's head. The nano-tech maching is doing a full diagnostics.

Thorgan: (into headset) Almost done.

Kay-em 14: Ow!

Thorgan: Oh, hush. I disengaged your pain programming.

Kay-em 14: Sometimes I just wish I had a kitten.

INT. WALKWAY ONE

Boeman enters, throws his pack to the ground and goes to work ttaching a device to the wall of the huge glass connector.

INT. WALKWAY TWO

Janessa enters and goes through the same motions.

INT. WALKWAY THREE

Delongpre and Rizzo attach a device to the wall.

Delongpre: Put your finger here.

SHe does so. Delongpre connects several wires. Rizzo looks nervous. Delongpre notices.

Delongpre: My father wanted me to be a businessman.

Silence.:

Delongpre: That's why I'm here.

Rizzo: So, you thought you'd be cool. Go against your father's wishes? Yeah, that's grown up.

Delongpre looks at her like she's crazy.

Delongpre: My father's company imports and exports. Archaeology is part of the business. We happen to get along just fine, smartass. Look, why don't you bust somebody else's balls for a change.

Rizzo: I thought you meant...

Delongpre: You thought I meant...too tough to apologize, huh? You must have been a very lonely girl.

Silence. neither speaks.:

INT.  LAB ONE

Thorgan rips a metallic sink from the wall. It CRASHES to the floor.

Thorgan: Sorry, sorry.

Kay-em 14(o.s.): Who are you apologizing to?

Thorgan: Good point.

INT.  WALKWAY ONE

Boeman attaches another charge. He's sweating. Nervous. Keeps looking over his shoulder. Standing alone on this long walkway is a creepy sight.

INT.  WALKWAY TWO

Janessa stops working, listens.

KA-THUMP -- There's anoise in the Cargo Bay.

She covers the mike on her headset and calls out.

Janessa: Thorgan, you little shit, is that you?

No answer. She quickly turns to her pack and pulls out the bottle of tranquillizer and a monster syring.e She fills this rhino syringe with a massive dosage. Enough to bring down a Rhino...or Jason maybe?

She starts moving down the walkway toward the Cargo Bay. Surely she's not that stupid.

INT.  WALKWAY THREE

Rizzo is staring at Delongpre as he works on another device. Then --

Rizzo: When I was four, the ocean quit producing life. Too many pollutants. Nuclear testing, the occasional terrorist bombing...the atmosphere was shit by the time I was eight. We moved underground when I was twelve.

Delongpre stares at her. He doesn't want to speak and screw up this rare moment of sharing.

INT.   CARGO BAY

Janessa enters. Looks around.

The cargo bay is dark and looming. Lights flicker. Emergency lights strobe. It's hard to make anything out.

We hear Rizzo speaking Off Screen.

Rizzo(o.s.): My father was an army Scientist. Genetics. The army thought they could develop humans able to survive the Earth we had created

Janessa moves through the debris.

Another pov:

We see Janessa come into view.

Rizzo(o.s.): Jason seemed to have the right stuff. Physically, anyway. Radiation, cell damage, didn't matter. He just kept going.

INT.  WALKWAY THREE

Delongpre: Were you close to your father?

Thorgan interrupts over the headset.

Thorgan(v.o.): Delongpre? What did you do with the chain gun?

Delongpre frowns.:

Delongpre: (into mike) It's on the table where I left it! What the hell are you doing?! Hurry up!

Thorgan(v.o.): I'm on my way.

Boeman(v.o.): Thorgan, quit screwing around and come on!

Thorgan(v.o.): I'm coming, I'm coming.

Delongpre: Sorry, you were saying?

INT. CARGO BAY

Watcher's pov:

JANESSA approaches the pile of debris where Jason was buried.

Rizzo(o.s.): I got along great with my father, my mother too. Dad and the others thought they could learn a great deal from this thing the army had been keeping on ice for over a hundred years.

Janessa moves the debris around with her foot.

Rizzo(o.s.): They were all wrong. They couldn't control him.

INT. WALKWAY THREE

Delongpre: And what happend to ...?

Rizzo begins to tear up.

Rizzo: I couldn't save them.

Delongpre: Well, we'd be dead without you. You know that, don't you?

She stares at him.

Delongpre: It's true. (chuckles) You caused enough stink that we were at least a little cautious. Of course this is the first field trip I went on that had a body count.

She gives him a  half smile.

Delongpre: I'm not much, but I promise, I won't let this guy get you.

Another half smile. It's a sweet gesture, but what can this guy really do?

INT. CARGO BAY

Jason's pov:

He watches Janessa from a  distance. Moving slowly and silently toward her.

She stands and turns as --

SERGEANT BRODSKI grabs her!

She screams.:

He's covered in blood from a gaping wound in his gut.

Brodski: Where is everybody? What happened?

Janessa: Damnit! You scared the hell out of me!

Brodski: Give me a break! What happened?

Janessa: Jason. He's what happened. Then Grendel hit Space Lab.

Brodski: Space Lab?! Wait'll I get my hands on Yllo.

Janessa: Yllo's dead. We...we thought you were too.

Brodski: Takes more than a steelbalde to take this old dog down.

Ka-thunk!:

JASON"S MACHETE THRUSTS though Brodski's gut. Jason spins Brodski around and tosses him to the floor!

Brodski: Yup, that ought'a do it.

Jason turns on Janessa.

She stands frozen in fear.

Jason raises his machete and --

Janessa:

Lights a flare, blinding Jason for the moment. Then she sinks the Rhino syringe into his chest! Jason stumbles...falls hard on his ass and sits there staring at her.

Janessa: Well go on! Pass out!

Jason tears the syringe away and tosses it aside.

Janessa: Shit.

Jason starts to climb to his feet. Janessa turns to run.

Brodski: (weak) He-help me...

He holds his hand out to her. Then--

Boeman(v.o.): I'm blowing Walkway One. Hold on.

KA-FOOM! The SHIP BUCKS!

Janessa runs, leaving the sergeant behind.

INT.  CARGO BAY - OUTSIDE WALKWAY THREE

Delongpre closes the door, then --

Delongpre: We're blowing three. Hang on.

He throws a switch!

INT. CARGO BAY - BRIDGE SIDE

Boeman vaults over a pile of rubble.

Boeman: Janessa, we're on our way to you!

INT. WALKWAY TWO

Holding hands, Delongpre and Rizzo enter. They stop...stand...stare.

The walkway is empty. Janessa is gone.

Boeman rushes up behind them.

Boeman: Where is...?

Delongpre: You tell me! She's only set one charge. And it's not finished!

With that Janessa tears into the walkway. She's out of breath. She can barely speak.

Boeman: Where have you been?!!

Janessa: He....He...

Delongpre: He's coming!!!

Their pov:

JASON moves through the debris. He's coming straight for them.

Boeman: Run!!

They race down the length of the walkway. Jason right behind them.

Rizzo: We can't lead him into the other hull!

Boeman: We don't have a choice!

Boeman slams the door panel. The door slowly rises.

Jason approaches, stops, stares at his future victims. If he could smile with anticipation...he would. He raises his Machete --

Then stops. Lowers it.

Cha-chung. cha-chung. cha-chung.:

He turns his back on our heroes. They crane their necks to see what has pulled his attention.

THORGAN marches down the walkway with KAY-EM 14. The new and imporved KAY-EM 14.

Where her severed arm had once been, a chain gun is now attached. A laser cannon is mounted over her shoulder. Her body has been reinforced with steel from around the lab. Sinks, trays, you name it. She's the junk yard man's terminator. Then --

Kay-em 14: Do I have to?

Thorgan: Yes, I've reprogrammed you. You are very brave. Bad ass.

Kay-em 14: Oh, alright.

KAY-EM 14 INTERNAL SCAN POV

We see a somewhat computerized image of Jason through Kay-Em's personal scan. One the display we see:

Subject: dead: CHANCES OF FUNCTION: 100 PERCENT DOES NOT COMPUTE . . . DESTROY SUBJECT

Kay-em 14: Come on, boy. Let's see if we can open up  can'a whoop ass!

BRAAAATTTT! The chain gun rings! Jason is SLAMMED into the HULL DOORS.

Delongpre: Holy shit!

JASON jumps up and rushes at Kay-Em who catches him and tosses him down the walkway --

BRAAAATTT! Kay-Em opens up again. Kay-Em's weaponry shoves Jason out into the cargo bay witha  blur of bullets.

Another angle:

Boeman: What are we waiting for?!! Come on!!

Our heroes rush down the walkway toward the cargo bay. Boeman and Delongpre go to work setting the charges.

Boeman: (to Janessa) Where the hell were you?!!

Janessa: He came for me, I had to run!

Thorgan: (into mike) Kay-Em, you okay?

INT. CARGO BAY

Kay-em 14: Don't worry about me. I live for this shit.

And with that, Kay-Em BLOWS the now standing Jason into another wall with the laser cannon.

INT. WALKWAY TWO

Boeman: Toss me a chip.

Delongpre pulls a trinket from his pack and pitches it to Boeman.

Boeman: Thorgan, you're brilliant. Have I told you that lately?

Thorgan is standing at the end of the walkway staring into the cargo bay. He looks sad.

Thorgan: (quietly) See you around.

INT.  CARGO BAY

Kay-Em 14 marches toward the downed Jason, and starts singing an old Sea Shanty.

Kay-em 14: She's the Yellow Rose of Taegu, the girl that I adore. Her cunt it smells like cock juice; she's a good two-dollar whore. You may talk to me of Seoul girls or whores from Tokyo, but the yellow rose of Taegu beats them all, I'd you know.

Bratttt!!!:

Kay-Em blows Jason into --

INT. HALL BETWEEN LABS AND CARGO

She kicks him down the long corridor.

INT. WALKWAY TWO

The hull SCREAMS from the exterior pressure. The ship RUMBLES.

Boeman: I'd say we have about ten minutes tops.

Delongpre: Then stop talking and work faster!

INT.  LAB ONE

Jason BURSTS through the debris that had been blocking the Lab! Kay-Em enters behind him.

Kay-em 14: (still singing) She was a young and charming girl; her age was scarce sixteen.

JASON rushes KAY-EM 14!

Kay-em 14: She took me in and she kicked out a sailor and marine.

Ka-ching!!!!:

His machete bounces off of Kay-Em's new armor.

Kay-em 14: She had no titties on her chest; that didn't bother me,

Wham!:

Kay-Em 14 back hands Jason across the room. He crashes into the glass speciments. Goo and formaldehyde covering him.

Kay-em 14: For what she had between her legs was big enough for three.

INT. WALKWAY TWO

Boeman and Delongpre are finishing up.

Boeman: Okay, Janessa, give me your last charge.

Janessa looks around, then --

Janessa: I...I don't know what I did...

Delongpre: You lost the charge?

Janessa: He was chasing me!

Rizzo: Can we blow it with just two?

Boeman: If we don't sever the hull completely she'll drag us down with her.

Delongpre: Then what do we do?!

Boeman: I don't know!

INT.  LAB ONE

Kay-Em stands over Jason. And for the first time in ten films Jason is in bad shape. But still climbs to his feet...slowly.

Kay-em 14: Why you low life, scum sucking, rat dick blowing, sum bitch. Your mamma must'a had some huge balls.

Of course, as anyone knows, you don't diss Jason's mother.

Jason leaps, tacking Kay-Em 14! They roll into another glass case. Glass, formaldehyde and specimens rain down on top of them.

Having lost his machete, Jason BASHES at Kay-Em with his fists. OVER and OVER. He catches a rhythm. Kay-Em is trapped below.

INT. WALKWAY TWO

Delongpre: Well, it was a good plan.

They look at one another -- hopless. Then --

Brodski(o.s.): You stupid bitch!

Everyone jumps as Sergeant Brodski leans against the walkway door frame. He's bound his wounds with a make-shift tourniquet wrapped around his mid-section.

Brodski: Damnit to hell, you left me back there to die!

Boeman: Sergeant? We thought you were...

Brodski: Yeah, yeah. (to Janessa) Well, what have you got to say for yourself?

Janessa: I don't know...sorry?

Rizzo: Sergeant, we could use a big bomb.

Brodski: Bomb?

Boeman: Explosive. We're blowing the walkway.

The sergeant tosses his pack to the ground.

Brodski: How much you need?

INT. LAB ONE

WHAM...WHAM...WHAM... A RAIN of firststaking on this droid from the future.

Finally, Jason stops. Straddling KAy-Em 14 he stares at his kill...until --

Kay-em 14: (condescending) That was very good. You should feel very good about yourself right now. Good effort. (tough voice) How could you hit a girl you sumbitch?!

Kay-Em 14 places the chaingun over Jason's chest.

Braaaatttt!!!!:

Jason is blown across the room!

Kay-em 14: Okay, dip shit. Time to finish you off so I can go home and boink your momma with a corndog. The kinky bitch.

Chaingun and laser cannon UNLEASH A MASSIVE DISPLAY on the fleshly body of JASON VOORHEES.

The top portion of Jason's mask shatters!

hIS RIGHT LEG IS TURNED INTO A PILE OF MEAT, then blown clean off for good measure! Jason falls on his ass!

He raises his machete arm. A last ditch effort. Could he be that lucky? To throw a machete and stop this onslaught?

Cha-ching!:

Nope.:

Kay-em 14: (singing) Bang, bang Maxewells silver hammer came down upon his head. Doo-pee- do-do. Bang, bang Maxewell's silver hammer made sure that he was dead...

Jason climbs to his one good leg but i t only serves as a better aim for Kay-Em 14.

KA-FOOM! The laser cannon blows Jason's left arm to hell.

Ka-foom! ka-foom!:

Two more blasts send Jason flying through the back wall and sliding across the floor.

KAY-EM 14'S INTERNAL SCAN POV

This time, Jason's body doesn't move.

Subject: dead: CHANCE OF FUNCTION: ZERO PERCENT MISSION OF OBJECTIVES: COMPLERED

Kay-em 14: Oh...my...god. What have I done? (crying) Thorgan!

Kay-Em turns and races down the hall.

Kay-em 14: Thorgan I'm a murderer!

INT.  WALKWAY TWO

Boeman and Delongpre hustle to set the final charge.

Brodski: Blowing the walkway? You come up with that yourself?

Boeman: Rizzo did.

CHA-CHUNG...CHA-CHUNG. Kay-Em steps into the walkway. She's covered in blood.

Thorgan: Kay-Em!

Boeman: What are you doing back?!!

Kay-em 14: (sad) Sumbitch won't be giving us anymore trouble.

Rizzo: You killed him?

Kay-em 14: (regret) Blew half his skull away, one leg, one arm and left his entrails stretched across the lab. And look at me! I'm covered in his filthy blood!

Thorgan: You did good, Kay-Em. I'm proud of you.

Kay-em 14: A real mamma's boy that one. Dissed his mamma and he nearly threw a tantrum. Little good it did him.

Rizzo: His mother?

Boeman: What?

Rizzo: I don't know. Nothing.

Suddenly the ship's hull SCREAMS. The ship BUCKS. Everyone tumbles.

Boeman: Hurry up people! We're running out of time.

INT.  LAB ONE

Jason's body is propped up against a machine in the same position we saw it before. This mass of torn flesh doesn't move.

The ship BUCKS again.

The machine HUMS to life. BUZZING and BEEPING. Suddenly a laser scans Jason's body.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL

Jason is leaned up against the Nano-Tech machine.

INT. WALKWAY TWO

Thorgan runs wire to each device.

Thorgan: As long as they're connected we can blow them all simultaneously from a safe distance.

Boeman: Two more charges to go.

INT. LABE ONE - NANO-TECH MACHINE

We see a schematic of Jason's battered body on the monitor. Nano- technology is already at work.

Hoses and wires now encircle Jason's body. We follow one of the hoses until it ends over --

A waste bend:

nside we see pile of bullets. Stuff falls from the hose. Bullets from the chaingun, bullets from  every previous Jason movie. A broken machete blade drops to the pile. The tip of an arrow. A couple of knives. A pair of pliers. An ink pen. The skeleton of a fish.

The scanning lasers move to the stump at Jason's shoulder. We see the image as a new arm, fuzzy adn distorted, is being constructed.

On the schematic, we see Jason's internal organs being repaired.

By now  we've figured out ...nothing good can come of this.

INT.  WALKWAY TWO

Kay-Em 14 hits a button. The door begins to slide down slowly.

Thorgan: Done!

Boeman: Let's move out!

Brodski: Kid, you ever thought about the marine corp?

Delongpre calls fromthe far end of the walkway, welder in his hand.

Delongpre: I need another minute. Come on!

On our heroes:

Suddenly there is a GRINDING SOUND. Engines WHINE from behind them.

The group stops and turns.

The cargo door is starting to smoke. It SQUEALS as it slowly opens.

Brodski: Well fuck me.

Kay-em 14: No, fuck me.

The door opens and Jason steps into the walkway.

But he's no Jason we've ever seen before. His leg and arm are now SHINY METAL. His clothes are BLACK, no longer tattered. His mask is CHROME. We can't see them, but we know...his insides are in better shape than ever.

Thorgan: Kay-Em? Re-engage killer instinct.

Kay-em 14: Yeeee-haw!!!!

Braaaattttt!:

Kay-em firs. But, this time it doesn't seem to faze Jason. SPARKS fly as bullets vounce off of his metal limbs.

Jason swings his new improved machete. It CLANGS off of Kay-Em's armor, removing a hunk of metal.

Jason grabs her and swings her into the glass walkway. Glass CRACKS. One of the wires, connecting two charges severs.

Boeman: Shit!

Kay-em does a back flip, kicking Jason in the chest. He's shoved backwards.

Boeman attempts to splice the wires back together as the battle ensues.

IT'S MASSIVE! Intellectual synthetic droid verses psychotic metallic killer. SPARKS FLY. GUNFIRE SOUNDS. Then Kay-Em does a round house kick, but Jason uses his machete as a shield. Kay-Em's leg is nearly sliced off at the knee.

She stumbles...falls to the ground.

Thorgan: Kay-Em!!!

Boeman splices the wires together.

Boeman: Done!!

Then turns to see Jason approaching.

Boeman: RUN!!

But Jason's too close. He grabs Boeman.

On kay-em:

As her body separates from her legs mid-thigh. CHCHHHHH! THRUSTERS IGNITE from her lower thighs.

As Jason raises his machete to do Boeman in --

KA-FWAM! Kay-Em slams into him! Knocking Boeman free.

Jason and the now hovering Kay-Em go at it again.

CHANG! CLANG! CLUNK! Metal against metal. Kay-Em hovers up the walls, over Jason's head...but Jason has come into his own with these new body parts. She's no match. Finally --

JASON EMBEDS HIS MACHETE IN KAY-EM'S THROAT

Another angle:

Jason rears back and shoves his fist though Kay-Em's chestplate! his fist from Kay-Em's chest and wraps his metallic hand around he throat.

Thorgan: Kay-Em! Get away!

Thorgan moves toward his robotic love but Boeman grabs him and pulls him down the hall.

Kay-em 14: That's the best you can do?

Jason yanks his machete from the side of Kay-Em's neck. Severing her head from her body. It flies down the hallway behind the kids.

Kay-em 14: Is that it? Come back and fight like a man!

Jason:

Turns his glare on our heroes racing toward Delongpre at the other end.

Delongpre:

Delongpre: Done!

Delongpre lifts his welder's mask to call to the others when he sees JASON.

Delongpre: Shit, hurry!

Our heroes:

Run toward the door. But, Thorgan stops.

Boeman: What...?

Thorgan turns, runs back toward Jason.

Boeman: What are you doing?!!

Thorgan is running to retrieve Kay-Em 14's head. It lies between he and Jason. He'll never make it!  Thorgan hits the floor, slides and scoops up the head.

Kay-em 14: I think I'm going to throw up...

BUT IT'S TOO LATE.

Jason raises his machete from his belt and --

Rizzo(o.s.): Hey, dickhead!

JASON TURNS AS --

KA-CHUNG!!!! Rizzo nails him with a metal ar.

Rizzo: (to Thorgan) Go!

Jason stumbles backwards then whirls on Rizzo.

Rizzo: Oh, yeah, you remember me.

He sure does.:

She turnsa dn runs.

Another angle:

As the others race into the engien room they turn to watch.

Boeman: Hurry!

Delongpre: Faster! Don't we have another gun?

Rizzo catches up to Thorgan but they have a long way to go and Jason is gaining.

Janessa: They're not gonna make it. Close the door before he gets us all.

Delongpre: They'll make it.

Janessa: Close the fucking door!

Delongpre: NO!

JANESSA leaps forward and hits the switch. The door begins sliding slowly shut.

Delongpre: Damnit!

Boeman hits the button again.

Delongpre: (glares at Janessa) Forget it. I had to rewire it. Once it's started it won't stop.

Another angle:

Jason:

Twenty paces behind:

INT.  ENGINE ROOM

Delongpre: Get ready to blow it.

Rizzo dives, slides under the closing door.

Thorgan follows her lead, but his slide doesn't have the same force. He stops with the door coming down on his lower back.

Luckily, Delongpre snatches his arms and yanks him through.

The door closes!:

Delongpre: Now!

Boeman turns the switch.

INT.  MIDSHIP WALK WAY

The charges BLOW! A FIREBALL rushes toward the running JASON!

INT.  ENGINE ROOM

Close on door:

As ka-fwam!!!:

JASON'S BODY IMPRINTS IN THE NOW SEALED DOOR.

EXT. GRENDEL

The walkway explodes, severing Grendel into two separate hulls. The left damaged hull, sinks out of view as the engine side begins to pull away. Then --

Ka-foom!!:

Grendel's LEFT HULL finallay EXPLODES!! They barely amde it.

INT.  ENGINE ROOM

The right hull BUCKS from the force of the blast. Our heroes are aireborne for a moment then crash to the floor.

Brodski: Damage?

Boeman climbs to a console.

Boeman: Minimal.

Rizzo: We made it?

Delongpre: I think...I think maybe we did.

Cheers:

Thorgan looks into Kay-Em 14's severed head.

Thorgan: Kay-Em we made it!

Kay-em 14: Oh, goody. I'm so pleased. I'd clap if I could.

Boeman CLICKS on a console keyboard.

Boeman: I've changed the course for Earth II. And I sent a distress signal.

Voice(v.o.): Roger, Grendel. What's the problem?

Boeman: (into mike) Our ship has been damaged, most of the crew dead. We need evac.

Voice: Copy that Grendel. Rescue enroute. You should hit EARTH II orbit in fifteen minutes. Rescue ETA twenty minutes.

Cheers!:

Boeman: We're going home people.

More cheers.:

Rizzo turns to find Delonpre staring at her.

Delongpre: (big smile) See? We're not so bad.

Rizzo: Not so bad.

There's that moment when we think the two might kiss. She takes a step toward him. Yes, they are going to kiss --

Boom!:

WARNING LIGHTS. WARNING ALARMS. The sound of SUCKING WIND. AS JASON, still very alive shoves his fist through the imprinted door with his metal hand!

As he rips a bigger hole to gain entrance our heroes are fighting to hold on to anything.

The Hole is sucking everything not tied down out into space.

Boeman is the first to reach the reactor room door.

Boeman: This way!

He pulls Sergeant Brodski through the door as --

Jason:

Fights his way through the opening in the hull.

The engines BUCK and begin to SMOKE.

Boeman: The pressures cause the engines to overheat! Hurry!

Delongpre helps Rizzo and Thorgan to safety.

Janessa crawls across the floor digging her fingers into the steel mesh.

Sergeant brodksi:

Lying in the door's threshold reaches out and snags her hand.

Janessa: Pull me in!

Brodski: I'm pulling, damnit!

But Jason grabs Janessa's ankle and jerks. She's pulled from the Sergeant's grasp.

She flops around in the sucking wind as Jason watches. He lets go.

She flies toward the hole, slams into it.

Everything goes quiet for a moment. As he body has sealed the hole then --

Shhhhhhhhoooook!:

She's sucked into space in a most grotesque manner.

Another angle:

Brodski: Well, that's a shame.

INT. REACTOR CORE

Hug cylindrical machines run the length of this enormous room. They HUM quietly as our group enters.

Brodski: We need weapons.

Rizzo: Weapons? All this technology and what good has it done?!

Delongpre: It bought us some time.

Boeman: And now we're all out of it.

Everyone stares at Boeman. He's standing at another console.

Boeman: The ship's depressurizing, the engines overheating. When it  reaches the core, we're done.

Rizzo: Done?

Thorgan: Kaboom.

Delongpre: Again?! Jesus!

Rizzo: Why am I not surprised?

Thorgan still clutches Kay-Em 14's severed head.

Kay-em 14: You must shut down the engines.

Delongpre: Then do it. The rescue ship can find us here right?

Brodski: Can't shut em' down from here.

Boeman: Somebody's gonna have to go back to the engine room.

Delongpre: You ain't catching my ass in there again.

Brodski, still bleeding, pale, struggling to stand --

Brodski: I'll go.

The kids give him the "are you crazy?" stare.

Boeman: You're too weak. I'll go.

KA-FWAM! Everyone jumps but this time it's only Rizzo. She broke a metal stand and has yanked one of the legs free.

Rizzo: You know, this future shit sucks. I'll fucking do it.

Delongpre: You?

Rizzo: (mumbling) Wait around on your asses all day. (turns to Thorgan) I'll need a distraction.

Thorgan: What kind of a distraction?

INT. ENGINE ROOM

JASON is pounding on the reactor room door. A difficult act with the continued pressure trying to suck him into space.

Then: RIZZO HEY!

Jason turns to find Rizzo standing in the doorway behind him.

Rizzo: You want some of me?

Jason whirls around and lurches toward her clinging to machinery as he goes.


INT.  ENGINE ROOM CORRIDOR

Rizzo backs slowly as Jason closes in.

As he reaches the corridor, she turns and runs.

Rizzo:

Rizzo: Come on, keep up.

Jason barrels toward her.

Rizzo: You want some of me or not?

She stops at a door, but doesn't attmept ot open it.

Jason comes closer..and closeer...but Rizzo doesn't move --

Jason moves in for the kill, raises his machete, and --

Rizzo: Take your best shot --

Slash!:

RIZZO'S CHEST IS SPLIT OPEN!

Rizzo: (laughs) I'm melting! I'm melting!

SLASH! Her arm falls to the ground!

Rizzo: See now that was stupid. Persistent, yes, but stupid.

Jason shoves his fist, through her chest and into the wall.

Rizzo: Not this time, asshole. This time I'm gonna watch you burn in hell.

INT.  ENGINE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The real RIZZO rips off her virtual reality helmet.

Rizzo: Make it fast. He's coming.

Delongpre is punching numbers into the keypad. Both are wearing headsets.

Delongpre: Almost got it.

Another angle:

As Jason returns to the engine room, none too pleased at being tricked.

Boeman(v.o.): Hurry up, guys. We've got the rescue ship on radar.

Rizzo: Delongpre! Out of time!

Delonpre: Got it!

Rizzo jersk Delonpre and both spill into the reactor corridor. Rizzo slaps the panel. the door closes! Shutting out Jason's image.

Delongpre: Damn that was close!

Wham!:

THE ENGINE ROOM door RIPS in half. JASON CLIMBS through.

RIZZO AND DELONGPRE RUN!

Rizzo: (into radio) Guys, he's right behind us!

Thorgan(v.o.): It's okay.

Delongpre: Okay?!!

Thorgan(v.o.): Just come on, I've got an idea.

They race down the long corridor toward the reactor room. JASON IN PURSUIT.

INT. DOCKING BAY

Thorgan is typing like mad at small portable keyboard. Boeman stares out the docking bay window.

His pov:

There's damage, lots of it.

Boeman: (into radio) The docking bay was damaged after the explosion. Meet us at the airlock.

INT. REACTOR ROOM corridor.

Delongpre: Got it. (to Rizzo) You ever space walked?

Rizzo: Oh sure, all the time.

They leap through a door, closing it behind them, then keep running.

Behind them:

KA-FWAM! Jason barrels right through the door.

Rizzo: (into headset) Damit, Thorgan, whatever you're doing... you'd better hurry! (growls) I hate the future!

INT.  REACTOR CORE

Rizzo and Delongpre enter in a  mad rush. Delongpre closes the door. Little good it'll do.

INT. REACTOR ROOM CORRIDOR

JASON kicks the door with his metallic leg!

KA-FWAM! The door shatters and he stumlbes into --

EXT.  CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

Forest, cabins, the lake. Everything as we and Jason remember. But somehow distroted. A strange hue covers everything.

No, on second look, it's not exactly the way we remember. The trees are strange looking. Not the Pines and Oaks of Connecticut, but something foreign. The cabins look a little too advanced to be stuck in the middle of a camp. But the image will do. QUICK CUT TO:

INT.  REACTOR ROOM - DOCKING BAY

Thorgan stands at a keyboard clicking away. Boeman is wearing a space suit. He's helping sergeatn Brodski into his.

At the other end of the huge room, Jason wanders ... with confusion.

Thorgan: Don't worry. He can't see us.

Rizzo glances out the docking bay window.

Rizzo: Is that...?

Through windshield:

We see a planet much the same color as Earth, but the continents are wrong.

Delongpre: Earth II.

Boeman(v.o.): Suit up.

Delongpre leads Rizzo to a suit.

Delongpre: I'll help you in.

Thorgan: (into headset) Kay-Em, you've saved our lives, you know that don't you?

Another angle:

Kay-Em 14's head sits on the floor in the center of room.

Kay-em 14: It was my pleasure, my love. Perhaps if all works for the best you can rebuild me and we can try that doggie style thing again.

Docking bay:

The others stare at Thorgan...he looks embarrassed to say the least.

Delongpre: I knew you were a little sick, but Geez.

On kay-em:

Kay-em 14: (singing happily) I get no kick from champaign, mere alcohol doesn't faze me at all, but I get a kick out of you.

Thorgan: (under his breath) Goodbye, my love.

Boeman(v.o.): Thorgan, suit up.

Thorgan: (to Rizzo) This is gonna work. If he sticks to the program. Will he? Stick to the program?

Rizzo: His mother was killed before his eyes. That's what drove him insane. It'll work.

Delongpre: That sounds like Rizzo having faith in some of that future shit.

Rizzo: Eat me.

She smiles as she jersk the helmet out of his hand.

Another angle:

Jason slowly walks beside Kay-Em 14.

QUICK-CUT TO:

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

Jason is walking along the lake when he sees --

A CAMPFIRE off in the distance. LAUGHTER, SINGING. CAMPERS!!!

He takes off toward the campfire, then hears --

Splashing.:

He turns.:

His pov:

Within the distorted lake, someone is drowning. Could it be a little boy? A little Jason from many years ago?

Woman: Help me! (gurgles) Jason help me!

Jason:

Moves toward the beach. Steps partly into the water.

His pov:

THE WOMAN, THE VOICE. IT'S JASON'S MOTHER!

He turns toward the campfire, back to his mother...what to do?! Then --

JASON TEARS INTO THE WATER, TRYING TO REACH HER.

Mrs. voorhees: Help me, Jason, please! Help your mother!

Jason moves closer.:

Mrs. voorhees: Don't let me die again!

As he draws near, she reaches out her hands to him.

Jason:

Pauses staring at the please for help.

He stares into her pleading face. HIS MOTHER! After all these years!

He places his hand over her face, gently, then --

Pushes her under!:

He holds her there.

QUICK-CUT TO:

INT. REACTOR ROOM

Kay-em 14: Uh-oh. That's not a part of the program. Thorgan, we've got a problem!

EXT.  CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

Camp Cyrstal lake begins to jerk and fade.

INT.  REACTOR ROOM - DOCKING BAY

Everyone is suited up. Delongpre, the last, is adjusting his helmet.

Thorgan(v.o.): Oh, shit. He's going to see us.

Delongpre: Well, do something!

Thorgan grabs the portable keyboard and starts typing away!

EXT. CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

Suddenly the image solidifies then a number of the aliens from the game grid appear. But Jason's seen these guys before. He tears through them.

INT. REACTOR ROOM - DOCKING BAY

Thorgan: Shit!

Boeman hits the door panel to the docking bay. It begins to slowly rise.

Boeman: Just a little more time.

EXT.  CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

Jason stands atop a pile of dead alien like some strange Conan in space. The image flickers...he  catches a glimpse of our heroes at the end fo the room. He starts toward them.

Then a huge white fluffy bunny with huge breasts appears before him.

White fluffy bunny: (sings; deep african american voice) I'm'a big fluffy bunny...a big white fluffy bunny...

SWISH! The bunny's head is severed. The image distortss. Again we see our heroes. Jason is closer.

INT.  REACTOR ROOM - DOCKING BAY

The door is halway open. Our heroes start ducking under.

Jason is almost on them.

Rizzo: Thorgan!!!!

He's clicking away like a mad man.

EXT.  CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

A ROCK BAND appears playing some futuristic metal. Then CHEERLEADERS in scantily clad outfits. Then a MIDGIT in a cowboy hat riding by on a tricycle. We have now entered Thorgan's twisted streams of conciousness.

Jason tears through the aboe. His goal now clear. The distractions no longer fool him.

A volley ball court appears with naked girls bouncing around. A fat man wearing only a spiked leather Speedo. A huge turtle. A couple of goats.

Nothing is stopping Jason.

INT.  REACTOR ROOM - DOCKING BAY

Boeman reaches out and jerks Thorgan into the inner air lock.

EXT.  CAMP CRYSTAL LAKE

The image finally disintergrates.

Jason finds himself staring at our heroes. He lunges for the air lock, but --

Sergeant Brodski dives, hitting Jason in the chest and knocking him to the floor.

Boeman(v.o.): Sergeant!

Brodski(v.o.): Get out of here!

SERGEANT BRODSKI, still in Jason's clutches, kicks at the door panel.

The door starts to close as Jason begins hacking with his machete.

Brodski(v.o.): That all you got?!!

Jason hacks and hack, stabbing through the space suit, until finally, the tough old leather neck is silent for good.

INT.  AIR LOCK

The door is sealed.

Rizzo: He saved our lives.

Boemen hits another button, and the outer door begins to open.

Delongpre: Boeman, the ships not here.

Boeman(v.o.): Use the thrusters and you'll be fine. We'll huddle together out there.

EXT.  WHAT'S LEFT OF THE GRENDEL

AS THE OUTER DOOR OPENS, RIZZO UNCOMFORTABLY FIDGETS WITH HER SUIT.

Delongpre(v.o.): Hey, easy now.

He points to where her hand hovers over some buttons on her sleeve.

Delongpre(v.o.): You wanna release your air tanks?

Rizzo(v.o.): (nervous) Okay, good tip.

Delongpre(v.o.): You'll be fine.

Boeman(v.o.): Remember, stay calm, use your thrusters. We'll be fine.

Rizzo(v.o.): Why wouldn't we be. I mean, look around. So far so good.

Wham!:

Jason starts pounding from the other side.

Delongpre(v.o.): Don't worry. He can't get through that door.

Delongpre's right. This isn't some thin interior door or some walkway door reinforced by a high school kid. This is an air lock door. Built to withstand laser cannons and meteors.

Boeman(v.o.): Thrusters.

Chshshshsh. chshsh.:

Our group enters deep space.

EXT.  WHAT'S LEFT OF GRENDEL

Rizzo, Thorgan, Boeman and Delongpre look tiny next to the massive right hull. They thrust slowly into space.

Delongpre(v.o.): Rizzo, you okay?

Rizzo(v.o.): No I'm not okay! I don't know what the hell I'm doing!

Delongpre(v.o.): You're doing fine. I won't let anything happen to you, remember?

QUICK CUT TO:

INT. DOCKING BAY

Jason finally gives up with the massive pounding. He steps back. Turns, stares at the sergeants' dead body, then looks at --

The door panel:

He preses the button

the ari lock door begins to open. Air is suddenly sucked out of the room!

Sergeant Brodski's body flies out into space. Everything not tied down races out along with him.

ON KAY-EM 14'S HEAD

AS it skitters across the floor --

Kay-em 14: Ahhhhh!

-- and right out the air lock

Jason:

holds onto a machine until the door is open, then lets go! He shoots out into space.

EXT. GRENDEL

Jason flies out of the air lock.

His pov:

He's rocketing right toward one of the space suits!

Another angle:

Delongpre(v.o.): Rizzo, did they have chinese food in your time?

Rizzo(v.o.): I think I had some when I was eight.

Delongpre(v.o.): Did you like it?

Rizzo(v.o.): I think so, why?

Thorgan(v.o.): He's trying to ask you out on a date.

Delongpre(v.o.): Shut up, Thorgan!

Rizzo(v.o.): Delongpre, you don't even know me.

Delongpre(v.o.): I know you.

Suddenly Rizzo is SLAMMED from behind. She and Jason go spinning away from the others.

Delongpre(v.o.): Nooooooo!!

Rizzo:

grapples with Jason, but JASON IS JUST TOO STRONG.

Jason holds HER with his good hand and REARS his metallic hand back. He's going to punch a hole right through her helmet, most likely throat her head, when --

Wham!:

Delongpre rockets into Jason, but Jason's got one of his arms sticking through one of Rizzo's harnesses. THe three go tumbling.

Delongpre clings to Jason's back.

Delongpre(v.o.): Rizzo, pull away!

Rizzo(v.o.): I'm stuck!

Jason reaches back, grabs Delongpre and jersk him over his head until he's holding Delongpre around the thoat. He'll pop his helmet like a cork!

Another angle:

AS Thorgan and Boeman thrust towards the tumbling mass...

Thorgan(v.o.): We're too far away!

Back to jason:

AS he tightens his grip around Delongpre's neck. He can't fight back.

RIZZO is fighting to untangle her harness. We can hear Delongpre CHOKING over the radio.

The three are spinning even closer and closer towards EARTH II.

Then, Rizzo reaches down. She grabs Delongpre's leg and CLICKS a button on her sleeve.

Ka-chsshsh!!!:

HER AIR TANK BLOWS!

JASON IS THROWN OFF OF THEM!

But he's still tangled in Rizzo's hoses. And now she has no air.

Jason turns...grabs the hoses and begins pulling himself toward Rizzo and Delongpre.

He has them...when --

Wham!:

Brodski:

Still barely alive barrels into Jason, vlinging to his back. He turns, slashes with his knife and severs the hoses.

Jason and Brodski tumble towards EARTH II.

Another angle:

Rizzo's turning blue. She's about to pass out, when --

Delongpre pulls a hose from his suit and hooks it into her tank.

Chshshsh...:

AIR BEGINS TO FLOW.

Rizzo takes a big GASP...coughs.

Delongpre(v.o.): You okay?!

Rizzo(v.o.): (breathing steadily) Oh great...yeah, having a great time, and you?

Delongpre(v.o.): No thank you, you crazy old woman.

Rizzo(v.o.): Old woman?

Delongpre(v.o.): Well I mean, technically you are old enough to be my great, great, great...

Rizzo(v.o.): I get it.

Suddenly Boeman and Thorgan grab them.  The four survivors huddle together.

Kay-em 14: Hello? A little assistance here?

They turn to see Kay-Em's head floating close by. Thorgan graps at her and pulls her head into his arms.

The group cheers.:

Thorgan(v.o.): Kay-em you okay?

Kay-em 14: I am now. I missed you, Thorgan.

Thorgan(v.o.): I missed you too.

Kay-em 14: I love you.

Those two aren't the only two.

CLOSE ON RIZZO AND DELONGPRE

Their glass face masks are touching. They stare into each other's eyes.

Rizzo(v.o.): Chinese, huh?

They laugh and turn to stare toward EARTH II.

EXT.  EARTH II -- ORBIT

Suddenly Jason's body comes into view. It's racing toward Earth II. Brodski riding it like Slim Pickens.

Brodski: Yeee---Haaaaa!!

Slowly they begin entering the atmosphere.

Immediately Brodski is engulfed in flames and is gone. He was a good man...stay to the end to make sure the job was done right.

Spread eagle and alone, facing the planet below, Jason continues his descent.

His fingers wiggle as his chrome mask begins to heat up. It begins to glow. His metallic arm and leg glow.

Flames build as he rockets towards Earth II.

Flesh BUBBLES and OOZES.

His legs and arms begin to flail as hunks of burning flesh fall from his body!

EXT.  CAMP SIGHT

Four kids sit on futuristic sleeping bags around an old fashion campfire.

Kid # 1: Hey! Check that out!

They look up and see a blaze shooting towards Earth II.

Kid # 2: A falling star!

Kid # 3: It's a meteor dickhead.

Kid # 2: It's still cool.

It LIGHTS up the night, then --

EXPLODES IN A BRILLIANT FIREWORKS DISPLAY!

Kid # 1: Cool!!!

From the explosion, one small smoldering chunk falls toward Earth II.

EXT.  CRYSTAL RESERVOIR

Our pov:

As the chunk falls closer and closer we see that it is a glowing chrome hockey mask!

IT HITS THE WATER with a SSSSS!!!!

Back to kids:

Kid # 4: Damn! It his the reservoir.

Kid # 1: Let's go check it out!

The others agree as they grab their flashlights and head in toward what could be a wonderful new discovery.

DISSOLVE INTO:

A stream.:

The hockey mask washes down the stream, comes to a halt at a pair of grusomely charred hands.

The fingers,:

TWITCH, curl around the mask, lifting it off camera. AND WE --

FADE OUT, a familiar KI-KI-KI-KI-HA-HA-HA-HA, resonating as we --

Roll credits:

The end:



