



Megamind:



Written by:

Alan Schoolcraft & Brent Simons




Credits sequence:

Newspaper headline montage::

HEADLINES flash before us, displaying their accompanying photographs.

"UBERMAN - METRO CITY'S HERO AFTER DEFEATING MASTER MIND!

PHOTO: A chiseled, statuesque man wearing the COOLEST SUPER HERO SUIT IMAGINABLE, COMPLETE WITH FLOWING CAPE, shines a confident smile at the lens. This is UBERMAN, champion of METRO CITY.

"UBERMAN DEFEATS MASTER MIND'S GIANT ROBOT!"

PHOTO: Wide-shot of Uberman in mid-flight lifting the GIANT ROBOT in the sky above the city buildings.

"MASTER MIND ALL WET AFTER UBERMAN FOILS AQUARIUM HEIST!"

PHOTO: Uberman stands knee-deep in water. He has his enemy by the collar. The villain blocks his face from the shot with a METALLIC GAUNTLET.

The images start to flash by even quicker, each showing the MYSTERIOUS VILLAIN in various stages of humiliation. In each photograph he successfully blocks his face with his armored glove.

We ZOOM IN to the last headline.

"MASTER MIND BEHIND BARS ONCE AGAIN - THANKS TO UBERMAN!"

PHOTO: Uberman stands in a gallant pose with his fists on his hips, obviously trying to accentuate the "U" insignia on his chest.

END OF CREDITS SEQUENCE

EXT. BUILDING - DAY

We DISSOLVE from the photograph to Uberman standing in the exact same position.

WE PULL BACK showing him atop a BUILDING overlooking the city below. A perfect view for our guardian hero.

He watches the thriving metropolis, bristling with life as people happily go about their day.

Yet, we can't help but detect a hint of sadness in Uberman's expression. 2.



Uberman: You look so peaceful from up here.

His serenity is suddenly interrupted by a loud BEEPING SOUND coming from his wrist.

He looks down at a BRACELET (a manly one) on his right arm. It's a silver band with a FLASHING red letter "U".

Uberman (cont'd): Looks like Roxanne's in trouble again.

Uberman leaps off the building and into the air. His cape gracefully flows in the breeze behind him as he shoots off into the distance like a speeding bullet.

EXT. OBSERVATORY HIDEOUT - ESTABLISHING SHOT

Grime and moss decorate the outside of this long abandoned building overlooking the COAST. Once a place of knowledge and wonder - now home to a great evil.

INT. OBSERVATORY HIDEOUT - DAY

The inside is in complete contrast to the exterior. The huge hall with a GIANT TELESCOPE teems with advanced ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT. Computers, monitors and machines which do not have an obvious function FLASH and HUM.

A STEEL DOOR slides open, revealing the subject of our story MASTER MIND - a villainous sight to behold. His FACE IS INEXPLICABLY LIGHT BLUE, topped by an OVERSIZED, MUSHROOM- SHAPED HEAD with a CIRCULAR PATCH OF WHITE HAIR ON TOP.

He's dressed in the kind of costume only a super villain could pull off: a PURPLE JUMPSUIT AND BLACK BOOT ENSEMBLE WITH A GIANT GREEN "M" ON THE CHEST. His right hand, hanging at his side, is a METAL GAUNTLET WITH THREE SHORT SPIKES PROTRUDING BETWEEN HIS KNUCKLES.

Master Mind begins to survey the room with his TWO PERMANENTLY ARCHED EYEBROWS.

A man dressed as ALBERT EINSTEIN is busy ranting to two other men. One, a hulking brute, is dressed as LEONARDO DA VINCI. The other, a small intellectual-type carrying a clip-board, is dressed as the philosopher PLATO.

Einstein: I hate the outfits. I mean, I get it: we're all supposed to be "masterminds" - very clever. (MORE) 3. EINSTEIN(cont'd) I just feel stupid. I mean, what the hell did Einstein really do anyway?

Plato: Theory of relativity.

Einstein starts feverishly scratching his side.

Einstein: Well, you'd think he'd invent a wool sweater that didn't itch so much.

Da Vinci and Plato's eyes suddenly grow with concern as they see Master Mind walk up behind Einstein.

Einstein notices his colleague's staring over his right shoulder and turns around.

He turns around and Master Mind SEIZES HIM BY HIS THROAT with his metal gauntlet.

Master mind: The real Einstein once said, "God does not play dice with the world." He was right, because the world is MY dice. Is that understood?

DA VINCI & PLATO Sir! Yes, sir!

Einstein: (gasping for air) Yes, sir.

Master Mind undoes his grip on Einstein's throat.

Master mind: Alright, then - clean slate. Do we have the girl?

Da vinci: Yes, sir. She fell into our trap just like you knew she would.

Master mind: Reporters are a curious lot, and easily manipulated.

He quickly checks his physique in a GIANT MIRROR, adjusts his posture and sucks in his gut. 4.



Master mind: Alright, let's not keep the lady waiting.

Moments later:

Da Vinci escorts a BLINDFOLDED and bound woman, ROXANNE RITCHI, to the back of the room where Plato and Einstein are standing guard over a large BLACK SWIVEL-CHAIR facing away from us.

She pulls free of Da Vinci's grasp and waits for him to undo the blindfold.

Her face uncovered, we finally see Roxanne's striking features - all of which seem overshadowed by piercing eyes that seem more put off by the situation than afraid of it.

Master mind (o.s.): Miss Ritchi, we meet again.

The chair turns menacingly slow, finally revealing Master Mind.

Roxanne: You didn't need to turn around like that. I can recognize the stench of failure.

Master Mind unleashes a wicked laugh.

Master mind: I trust you gentlemen know the very sassy Roxanne Ritchi, highly regarded investigative journalist who some say has a more than friendly relationship with our super powered foe Uberman. And Miss Ritchi, I trust you've already met my new crew: The Mad Geniuses!

Roxanne gives Einstein a once over.

Roxanne: Looks like a real group of winners. At the risk of sounding cliche', you'll never get away with this.

Master mind: In a way, I already have.

Roxanne unleashes an exhausted SIGH. 5.



Roxanne: We go through this every time. You kidnap me to get to Uberman, he immediately finds your hideout, escapes whatever lame trap you've come up with, and takes you and your cronies to jail. I propose we just save everybody some heartache this time by YOU letting me go, and ME forgetting this whole thing ever happened?

Master mind: What about my revenge?

Roxanne: We can say it was wasting everyone's time.

Master mind: You have a wicked tongue. I hope you rid yourself of that when you're my queen.

Roxanne unleashes a snort-filled laugh.

Roxanne: I'm sorry. What makes you think I would want to be your queen?

Master mind: Power corrupts absolutely, Miss Ritchi. And when I have ultimate power over this city, I have absolutely every intention of corrupting you with it.

Plato: Sir!

Master Mind turns to Plato who's now standing at a computer terminal.

Master mind: (annoyed) What is it!?

EXT. OBSERVATORY HIDEOUT - DAY

Uberman flies toward the Observatory like a rocket. 6.




INT. OBSERVATORY HIDEOUT - DAY

Uberman crashes through the wall to the room we were just in. He looks around, but there's suddenly NOT A SOUL IN SIGHT.

CUT TO:

EXT. MASTER MIND'S HYDROFOIL - DAY

The boat is shooting through the ocean, away from the observatory.

INT. HYDROFOIL CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Machines, cables and terminals criss-cross the craft's main bridge. Through the enormous surrounding windows we can see the observatory shrinking in the distance.

Master Mind watches Uberman on a small TV monitor as the hero intently searches his hideout.

Uberman: (on monitor) Master Mind!

INT. OBSERVATORY HIDEOUT - DAY

Uberman throws up his arms in frustration when suddenly -

Master mind (o.s.): Over here, old friend.

He turns to see a FAMILIAR BLUE FACE OF EVIL ON A GIANT SCREEN.

Uberman: What's the matter, miss your old jail cell?

Uberman starts walking toward the monitor.

MASTER MIND (ON MONITOR) Actually, I wanted to share the experience with my oldest friend.

A MECHANIZED CAGE shoots out of the floor, suddenly trapping Metro City's protector.

Totally unfazed, our hero stares on. 7.



Uberman: You can't possibly believe this will work.

Master Mind pulls out a SMALL BLACK BOX with a SINGLE RED BUTTON on it.

MASTER MIND (ON MONITOR) Oh, can't I? I have attained control of the Earth's most abundant energy source. I doubt even you are strong enough to withstand the FULL CONCENTRATED POWER OF THE SUN!!!

He presses the button.

EXT. OUTER SPACE

A sinister-looking SATELLITE orbits Earth's atmosphere. Its bay doors suddenly open, deploying two huge SOLAR PANELS.

The panels shift, angling themselves in the direction of the sun. They immediately start GLOWING as they absorb the burning star's power.

The front of the satellite begins to make a loud HUMMING SOUND as it prepares to unleash its unholy power.

INT. HYDROFOIL CONTROL ROOM - DAY

From the giant window we can see the boat is a good mile from the observatory.

Plato: We're now at minimum safe distance, master.

Master Mind turns from the CAMERA he was broadcasting on and puts down the control box.

Master mind: Excellent. Stop here, I like this view.

Plato: Twenty seconds until impact.

Master Mind turns to Roxanne who is being held by Da Vinci and Einstein. She almost appears a little bored.

Disappointed by her lack of horror, he walks over to the monitor now showing Uberman trapped in the cage. 8.



Master mind: Any last words?

Uberman looks up at the screen with a cocky smile.

Uberman (on monitor): Yes: there's no caging the power of justice.

Plato: Ten seconds to impact.

On the screen we see Uberman take two of the cage's bars in his hands. He yanks...NOTHING.

Plato (cont'd): Nine...

Master Mind stares at the monitor, slightly confused.

Plato (cont'd): Eight...

Uberman yanks on the bars again, this time using his foot as leverage.

Master mind: (genuinely concerned) What's going on?

Uberman: (straining) Hold...on...a second.

Master Mind looks back at Plato and Einstein. They're equally befuddled at the hero's sudden weakness.

Plato: Seven...

Uberman loses his grip and FALLS BACKWARD ON HIS ASS.

Uberman: SON OF A BITCH!!

Master Mind and the minions all cringe in unison.

Da Vinci turns to Roxanne not believing his ears.

Da vinci: What did he just say? 9.



Plato: Six......Five...

Master Mind begins to laugh.

Master mind: What kind of trick is this?

Uberman looks up at the camera with a very grave expression.

Uberman: Like you don't know. These bars are made of copper, aren't they?

Plato: Four...

Master mind: Yeah, so?

Uberman tries to shield his grief with his hand.

Uberman: You figured out my weakness, damn you. I CAN'T BEND COPPER!

Plato: Three...

Master mind: Your weakness is copper?

Plato: Two...one.

Everyone turns to the window.

EXT. OUTER SPACE

The satellite fires a giant BEAM OF LIGHT toward the earth.

EXT. OBSERVATORY HIDEOUT - DAY

The beam hits the observatory. The building instantly EXPLODES in a white nova blast of fire.

INT. HYDROFOIL CONTROL ROOM - DAY

The blast is so bright everyone turns away from the window. Then, as suddenly as it began, the awesome light dies out.

One by one, the passengers unshield their eyes and look out toward the observatory. 10.



All we can see through the haze of destruction is fire and smoke.

Plato: I don't think even he could have survived that.

Einstein suddenly turns giddy with excitement.

Einstein: Whoa! Is it me or did you just finally destroy Uberman?

Master mind: (carefully skeptical) Well...let's not get ahead of ourselves.

Da Vinci suddenly sees something outside.

Da vinci: Look, there's something in the sky, coming this way.

Roxanne: Uberman!

Master Mind turns toward the window.

An object is in the air, flying directly toward them. As it closes in we can just make out the FAMILIAR OUTLINE OF A CAPPED FIGURE.

Master mind: I KNEW IT! PREPARE YOURSELVES! HE'S GONNA RAM US!!!

Everyone scatters and braces themselves for the impact.

Master Mind, seeing all the good places taken, doesn't know what to do with himself. He just covers his giant head with his hands.

The figure CRASHES THROUGH THE WINDOW and lands at his feet.

He looks down to see a CHARRED BLACK HUMAN SKELETON. Around its neck is the unmistakable black cape of Uberman.

Master mind (cont'd): (horrified) HOLY SHIT! 11.



Roxanne breaks out of Da Vinci's hold and runs over to the body.

Roxanne: Uberman?

She stares down at the still smoking corpse, the tattered black cape with the yellow "U" on it.

Roxanne turns to Master Mind, who's still visibly dumbfounded at the grotesque sight before him.

Roxanne (cont'd): You killed him!

Roxanne's eyes roll back. Da Vinci catches her from behind as she FAINTS.

Einstein turns to Master Mind, looking at him as if he's just walked on water.

Einstein: You did it!

Now that he's committed the impossible - our villain is at a complete loss.

Master mind: ...so I did.

Einstein: I mean, I know you always wanted to. I mean, all the schemes all the plots - I never thought you'd actually be capable of it.

Giddy as a school girl, Einstein turns to his fellow henchmen.

Einstein: This is history. Every villain and lackey in the history of villains and lackeys dream of this moment, but when does it actually EVER happen?

A sudden realization comes over his face.

Einstein: Good lord...You do all realize what we get to do now, don't you? 12.



His question is met with acquisitive looks from Master Mind and the others.

Einstein: We get to go on a crime wave.

CRIME WAVE MONTAGE - SET TO "Fun Fun Fun" by The Beach Boys.

SPINNING HEADLINE: "UBERMAN'S DEATH IGNITES CITY WIDE CRIME WAVE!"

Armored truck:

It's driving along when the men inside suddenly notice something - THEY'RE FLYING HIGH ABOVE THE CITY STREETS.

We PULL BACK to see the truck being carried by a giant claw at the bottom of a BRAIN COPTER.

Inside the cockpit Master Mind and his henchmen laugh maniacally.

SPINNING HEADLINE: "CHAMPION-LESS CITY AT THE MERCY OF HOOLIGANS."

Metro city bank:

Da Vinci and Einstein run out the front of the bank holding BAGS OF MONEY.

Two beat officers see them and take chase after them around the corner and into an alley.

After a moment the police reemerge from the alley screaming and running for their lives as a GIANT ROBOT CHASES after them.

The robot stops, then suddenly it's head opens up like convertible car top with Master Mind and Plato at the driver's wheel.

They smile and shake hands at a bad deed well done.

SPINNING HEADLINE: "MASTER MIND BLACKMAILS METRO!!!"

A vicious tornado:

It's heading for downtown Metro as Master Mind and the lackeys coolly look on.

Three large DUMP TRUCKS pull up, filled to the brim with bricks of CASH. 13.



The DRIVERS jump out as the lackeys take the driver seats in the three trucks.

Master Mind is about to climb into the passenger seat of one when a drivers taps him on the shoulder and motions toward the tornado.

Master mind: (absentmindedly) Oh, right.

Master Mind pulls a television REMOTE from his pocket and aims it at approaching windstorm of death.

He presses the button marked "Tornado Off."

The tornado shrinks and disappears just before it hits the city.

As they drive through the city streets, Master stares out the window with a hint of something in his eyes. Is it melancholy?

End of montage:

EXT. KINGPIN BOWLING - DAY

It's Metro City's premier bowling alley. On top of the neon lit building is a GIANT 30 FOOT TALL CEMENT BOWLING BALL.

INT. KINGPIN BOWLING - DAY

HAL STEWART (early 30's) takes careful aim with his BOWLING BALL.

Hal: It's a sport of honor, focus and grace. Honor the ball, focus on the pins, release the ball not hard and fast, but as if you were releasing a baby dove.

He takes a step, pulls back his arm, and releases the ball, following it with his eyes.

It's a horrible shot - INSTANT GUTTER BALL.

An aged barmaid type with a cigarette hanging from her mouth looks over at him.

Hal: Okay, do something like that - but center it more. 14.



She picks up her custom made FOGHAT BALL and takes aim.

Attractive blond: Tell me how my form looks, honey.

Hal focuses on the misshapen bumps of her enormous Johnson administration era derriere.

Hal: Oh, it's lookin' good. It's lookin' REAL good.

It doesn't get anymore clear. This man is a pig.

Vinnie (o.s.): Hal, I want to see you in my office!

Hal turns to see VINNIE, owner of the bowling alley, calling him.

Vinnie: Now!

INT. KINGPIN BOWLING - VINNIE'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

Hal sits down, facing Vinnie who's sitting at his desk.

Vinnie: You're fired. Leave your shirt and locker key.

This bit of news hits Hal like a freight train.

Hal: Fired? Are you going to tell me why?

Vinnie: Showing up to work late. Showing up to work late drunk. Sexually harassing customers. Stealing from the register.

Hal: Vinnie, I don't know where you're getting these accusations -

Vinnie takes out a video tape from his desk drawer and puts in a VCR. 15.



Hal: Oh, which one do you supposedly have here?

Vinnie: This is all of them at once.

Television:

A WOMAN walks up to a BOWLING EMPLOYEE and hands him a pair of shoes.

As the employee turns to the wall of shoes, a very drunk and disheveled Hal comes running in and pushes him aside.

Hal: I've got this one, Benny. So, Cinderella. Can I help you find your glass slipper?

Woman: Yeah, I'm looking for a seven.

He folds his arms on the counter and leans into her with a cat-like grin on his face.

Hal: (with a leer) Seven - Well, maybe I could interest you in something in an EIGHT. Namely, me.

Disgusted, she walks off screen.

Hal: Lesbo.

Suddenly realizing the register's open, he quickly grabs a stack of cash and shoves it in his pocket.

Back to office:

Vinnie turns off the television and waits for Hal to respond.

Hal: From the angle of the camera, I can see where you might have gotten the wrong idea. Listen, Vinnie, I don't think you've thought this through. If you fire me, who's gonna be captain of the alley's bowling team? 16.



Vinnie: Um, I don't know. Maybe somebody who can actually bowl. You guys have never won a game. I hired you because you said you were on the pro circuit.

Hal: No, I said I WILL BE on the pro circuit.

Vinnie: Please, a loser like you will never amount to anything.

This harsh remark seems to leave Hal genuinely stunned.

Hal: Wow...If that's how you feel...I guess we should then talk about what kind of severance I'm gonna get.

EXT. KINGPIN BOWLING - DAY

TWO BRUISERS open the door and throw Hal out onto the street.

He quickly picks himself up and turns back toward the building.

Hal: Hey...what about my ball?

A bowling ball sails past him, just missing his head.

Hal: Thank-you!

EXT. CHANNEL 7 NEWS BUILDING - DAY

The massive building with a giant 7 on the roof stands in the heart of Metro City.

INT. CHANNEL 7 NEWS BUILDING - OFFICE - DAY

The cubicles and offices are alive with the hustle and bustle of a busy news day.

Phones are RINGING, REPORTERS are TALKING, and Editors are SHOUTING.

The elevator doors open and out steps Roxanne Ritchi. 17.



Everything stops as the entire office suddenly falls SILENT.

Somewhat taken aback by the reaction, Roxanne scans the room to see every eye on her.

Roxanne: It's...um...It's good to be back. Thanks for everyone's cards and concerns. I really appreciated it - now I'm ready to climb back on the horse.

No one is budging - their looks of pity are really starting to make her uncomfortable.

The back office door suddenly opens and out comes FRANK BONIN, the gruff, middle-aged Producer of Channel 7 News.

Noticing the silence, he looks up and sees the sad expressions on everybody's face.

Frank: Someone die or something?

He suddenly notices Roxanne - both feet are placed firmly in his mouth.

Frank: (cursing himself) Oh, Jesus.

Roxanne: It's okay.

Frank quickly walks up to Roxanne and takes her gently by the arm.

Frank: Come on into my office, sweetie.

INT. CHANNEL 7 NEWS BUILDING - FRANK'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

He sits her down on his leather couch, then quickly turns toward his door.

Frank: Can we get this woman some water for God's sake? (to Rebecca) I gave you two months off. What're you doing back? People are gonna think I'm a slave driver. 18.



Roxanne: Aren't you?

Frank: Yeah, but I don't want people to think it.

Roxanne: Frank, listen. I want to go back to work. I NEED to go back to work.

Frank: ...You're hysterical, aren't you?

Frank sits down on the couch and blankets Roxanne with A WARM EMBRACE.

Roxanne: What're you doing?

Frank: Keeping you warm before you go into shock. (toward the open door) DO I HAVE SLICE OPEN A CAMEL HUMP TO GET A GLASS OF WATER AROUND HERE?

A SECRETARY quickly enters with a bottled water. She sets it on the table in front of them and leaves.

Roxanne pulls herself out of Frank's grasp and stands up to face him.

Roxanne: It was a traumatic experience. Yes, everyone knows Uberman and me were...close. But what I really need - what would really make me better is getting back to work.

There's a sudden awkward silence from Frank.

Frank: Well, that's going to be...

Roxanne: I thought you'd be happy to have me back. 19.



Frank: Oh, we are. Honey, nothing makes us happier than to have our girl back, but...

Roxanne: Yes?

Frank: Things have sorta...changed.

Roxanne: In three weeks?

Frank: Listen, I'm not one who likes to open up wounds - especially ones that are just starting to scab, but you were sorta our go to girl for the exclusive on Uberman. And now that he's gone...I moved Brad into your anchor spot.

Roxanne: (disgusted) Brad? Brad Helms? The man is an idiot.

Frank: It's the suits. They think it's time to switch things up.

Roxanne: Oh, because they can't use me to get the big story.

Frank: C'mon, Roxie. Using is in the nature of what we do. They used you, you used Uberman. Everybody's happy.

Roxanne: (defensive) I didn't use him.

Frank: Oh, I didn't mean that. I know you two were in love or something. My bad.

Roxanne: We were. 20.



Frank: And that's great.

Roxanne: Very in love.

There's a hind of self-doubt in Roxanne's expression, as if she's failed to convince even herself of this.

Roxanne: Okay. So, where are they going to move me if Brad has my spot?

Frank: ...Human interest.

Roxanne: Bake sales and pet stories.

Frank: I told them I wouldn't be surprised if you just upped and quit. You busted your ass for that desk.

Roxanne can hardly get it out - she's busy swallowing her pride

Roxanne: I'll take it.

Frank looks up at her, not believing what he's hearing.

Frank: What?

EXT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - NIGHT

Amongst the jungle of high rises, one small building stands out from the rest - A tiny, forgotten piece of 19th century Gothic architecture.

LIGHTENING FLASHES, revealing TWO CONCRETE GARGOYLES holding a cracked plaque, reading: METRO CITY LIBRARY.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - NIGHT

A mixture of old and new. Dusty Victorian furniture and dilapidated bookshelves sit side by side with pristinely futuristic machinery.

The building has been converted into Master Mind's new SECRET LAIR. 21.



In the center of the main room is a three storey tall GLOWING BLUE ORB. At the base of it is a sign that reads "Reactor - Don't Touch."

We PAN OVER to the READING ROOM where Master Mind is sitting on a couch watching TELEVISION.

REPORTER ON TELEVISION (O.S.) It's been nearly six weeks, and still no word on the whereabouts of billionaire playboy, and philanthropist, Wayne Scott. Tune in at 11:00 as we look into what has become Metro City's biggest mystery.

Television narrator (o.s.): We now return to "The Hero of our Hearts: The Uberman story."

Einstein and Plato come into the room holding a BAG OF LOOT.

Einstein: Just robbed the diamond exchange.

Master mind: (feigning pleasure) Great, great. Put it on the pile.

Einstein tosses it on a LARGE PILE of purloined valuables in the corner of the room.

Einstein: Anything else today?

Master mind: No.

Master Mind turns his attention back to the screen. Plato sees that Master Mind is in a funk and tries to snap him out of it.

Plato: (cheerfully) Sir, the new reactor is installed.

Plato nods to the giant orb.

Plato: Do you want to throw the switch? I know how you love to start reactors. 22.



Master mind: Maybe later.

Einstein gives Master Mind a funny look then exchanges glances with Plato before leaving the two of them alone.

Without turning away from the TV, Master Mind addresses Plato.

Master mind (cont'd): What is it, Plato?

Plato: (nervously) Sir, I can't help but notice that you've been...a little down lately.

Master mind: When I want your opinion I'll beat it out of you.

Plato: Yes, sir, I know, but please forgive my impertinence. It's just that you seem to have lost your lust for our profession. You've stopped going on jobs and spend most of your time watching Uberman specials.

Master Mind relaxes slightly and turns to face the window in a classically contemplative pose. After an overdramatic beat...

Master mind: I have defeated my greatest enemy. I have free reign over Metro City. I have more wealth than a thousand Sultans. I've achieved all I have worked for...so why am I so unhappy?

He walks over to a PAINTED PORTRAIT that looks almost exactly like him, except slightly older, maybe meaner - MASTER MIND'S FATHER.

Master mind: I mean, my father, god rest his evil and tormented soul, raised me straight from the test tube to be a symbol of evil. (MORE) 23. MASTER MIND(cont'd) And, I have accomplished something he had only dreamed about - the destruction of Metro City's champion. I tell you, I've always lived with this unquenchable thirst. I thought it was to make him proud or to get absolute power. But now that I've pretty much accomplished both, I am at a loss.

Plato: ...I sort of have a theory about all that.

Master mind: (snippy) Oh, really?

Plato: Well, for one thing, maybe Uberman was more important to you than you thought.

Master mind: He was a worthy rival. Sometimes I wonder, did he consider me his evil equal or was I just an annoying, little gnat to him? ...What's the second part?

Plato: I think you sort of have a thing for Roxanne Ritchi.

Master Mind quickly takes his lackey by the throat.

Master mind: YOU WORM! HOW DARE YOU! WHERE WOULD YOU GET SUCH A NOTION?

Plato: Sir, your plans always involve Ms. Ritchi either being kidnapped or placed in danger. If that's not love, I don't know what is. It's the grown up equivalent of dipping her pigtails in the ink well. Don't you see? She's the one treasure that's always escaped you.

From Master Mind's expression, we see Plato's words beginning to ring true. 24.



INT. RESTURAUNT - DAY

Roxanne is having lunch with several girlfriends sitting around her, gabbing.

Friend #1: I can't believe you came back so soon.

Friend #2: Are you sure it's not TOO SOON, honey?

Roxanne: I just wanted to get back to work.

Friend #3: What we need to do is get you back on the saddle...the love saddle.

Friend 1 and 2 give 3 disapproving looks.

Friend #3: It's been three weeks.

Friend #2: She just lost the love of her life, Grace.

A WAITER comes by with a tray of CAESAR SALADS and begins setting them out for the ladies.

Roxanne: I keep trying to tell people it wasn't really like that. Uberman and I - We were kinda having problems. We broke up.

The waiter ALMOST DROPS HIS TRAY AT THIS. The women are too shocked by Roxanne's revelation to notice.

Friend #1: You broke up with Uberman!

Friend #3: You must have REALLY, REALLY high standards. I mean, you were dating a god. I mean, what's it take?

Roxanne: Maybe someone who's a little more aware of his faults. Someone a little more sensitive. 25.



Friend #3: Right. Someone who listens, sexy but attainable with cute little cheeks like a hamster and heartbreak in his eyes.

She turns to Friend one and two to explain.

Friend #3: She wants John Cusack.

Friend #2: The actor?

Friend #3: No, the famous pediatrist - Yes, the actor. Ever since we were teenagers, Roxanne's totally had the hots for him.

Roxanne: Well, until he miraculously comes walking into my life, I'm just going to take a little reflection time for myself.

The waiter gets a confused look on his face then slips away as Roxanne and her friends continue to chat away.

EXT. RESTURAUNT - DAY

The waiter tosses his apron in a trash can, then rolls up his sleeve and presses A STRANGE LOOKING DEVICE STRAPPED TO HIS WRIST.

His image gets staticy, like a TV station going out, then disappears - revealing the man's true form underneath: MASTER MIND!

Master mind: Who the hell is John Cusack?

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

A YOUNG MOTHER pushes her baby stroller past a building construction site.

Across the street:

A local POLITICIAN addresses a group of REPORTERS on the sidewalk, including Roxanne. 26.



Politician: The Fifth Avenue Renovation Project, which I championed, will breath new life into the downtown area. New life means new jobs and new revenue.

Roxanne: Councilman, is it true that your brother-in-law's construction company won the contract for this project?

Politician: Well...er...yes, but...look I'm not here to answer a lot of crazy questions...

Young mother:

The young mother stops halfway down the block, reaches into the stroller and tries to comfort her now crying baby.

Above her, a CRANE is maneuvering a pile of STEEL GIRDERS to an upper floor.

Hal comes around the corner and heads in her direction.

Crane:

The crane GRINDS TO A HALT. The OPERATOR has a confused look on his face as he moves levers back and forth in an effort to fix the problem.

Hal stops a few feet from the woman and stoops down to tie his shoe.

Crane:

The operator's hand slips off the lever, hitting a RED BUTTON. To his horror the crane DROPS ITS LOAD OF STEEL.

HAL AND THE WOMAN

The woman looks up to see the girders seconds from crushing her and her baby. She screams.

Hal looks up and sees it as well. He starts to run out of the way and crashes into the woman and stroller.

Across the street: 27.



The reporters turns their cameras just in time to catch on film what appears to be Hal pushing the woman to safety just as the GIRDERS CRASH TO THE GROUND.

Hal and mother:

Tears of joy in her eyes, the woman picks up her baby and kisses it.

Hal struggles to catch his breath as the mother turns to him.

Young mother: Thank you! Thank you for saving me and my baby!

She hugs him with her free arm, weeping with joy.

Hal: (not knowing what she's talking about) Huh?

He's a little uncomfortable with the woman's public display of affection and the small child in-between their embrace.

Hal (cont'd): There, there.

Hal slowly eases out of the woman's grip.

Hal (cont'd): Okay, we better...well, I hear these little guys smother easy.

The reporters rush over and surround Hal and the mother.

Roxanne: What's it feel like to be a hero?

Hal looks up at Roxanne. Instantly, he's captivated by her beauty.

Hal: Well...I'm just a man doing what men do. You're Roxanne Ritchi, aren't you?

They're suddenly interrupted when another reporter pushes his way in between them.

Reporter: Were you scared? 28.



Hal: Scared? Who had time?

The reporters eat this up.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY    - NIGHT

Television:

John Cusack stands in the rain looking up at a window of a two story house. He holds up a BOOMBOX and "In Your Eyes" by Peter Gabriel begins to play.

From the couch, Master Mind and his minions watch.

Master mind: John Cusack, huh? So all I have to do is have a cute puppy dog stare, be willing to make a fool of myself and - Oh, REMOVE BOTH MY BALLS.

He turns to see Da Vinci watching the movie and wiping a tear from his cheek.

Master mind: Please, get a hold of yourself.

INT. BOOKSTORE - NIGHT

Roxanne is carrying a large paper coffee cup in her hands as she peruses the isles. She sets it down on a shelf to pull a book out and ends up KNOCKING THE DRINK OVER.

Roxanne: Shit.

She goes to pick it up when someone bends down and picks it up for her.

Looking up to thank him, Roxanne is suddenly stunned speechless - It's popular and critically acclaimed actor JOHN CUSACK, or rather Master Mind disguised as him.

"john cusack": Oh the humanity - it was a Venti.

Roxanne: (stunned) You're...you're.

"john cusack": Yes, it's me. John Cusack...the actor. 29.



He notices the book she's reading.

"john cusack": Hey, is that Shelly? Wait, I think remember something from that one - Let's see: "My head is screaming `I want you and need you' - my heart it keeps reaching to see you and feel you - yet in the end, I'm alone once again." Wow, I scare even myself. I'm sorry. I'm just really into poetry. Probably because I'm so sensitive and always going to great lengths to express myself. But enough about me. Can I fill you up?

Roxanne: (captivated) ...Yes. (catching herself) I mean, excuse me?

"john cusack": Can I fill you up? Your coffee.

Roxanne: Right.

INT. BOOKSTORE CAFE' - LATER

Roxanne talks as John Cusack listens to her every word intently.

Roxanne: I did have a boyfriend - until fairly recently.

She suddenly begins to feel the stares around her as passers- by being to notice who she's with.

Roxanne: I'm sorry - this is so surreal!

"john cusack": Yeah, they charge way too much at these places - Now back to your boyfriend. I'm interested and compassionate. I want to know about you. 30.



Roxanne: Things were complicated. He was a man married to his work. There was...there was a lot of competition in his line of business. I'm sure you know what that's like.

"john cusack": Sure. In my business, one thing I have is RIVALS. For example, mine is...uh...Lou Ferr...igno.

Roxanne: ...The body-builder who used to play The Hulk on TV?

"john cusack": Did he? Well, we're always up for the same roles. Did your boyfriend have someone like that? A particular rival that was always getting his goat - so to speak?

Roxanne: Well...one rival in particular seemed to get more of his attention than I ever did. But enough about my problems.

"john cusack": NO, TELL ME MORE!!!

Suddenly realizing his outburst, he begins COUGHING to mask it.

"john cusack" (cont'd): I'm sorry. I got a whooping cough. Had it ever since Serendipity. I WONDER WHERE OUR REFILLS ARE!!! again. Please, go on.

Roxanne: Right, well, he seemed to need him more than he needed me.

"john cusack": How do you mean? 31.



Roxanne: It was conflict he thrived on. He always said he wouldn't know what to do with himself if Master - I mean, this guy were gone. It was like he needed it, like oxygen.

(fakes cough) See, there it goes The answer to his mental funk hits him like a bolt of lightening. He turns away from her as if for private time.

"john cusack": (almost to himself) I think I finally understand...The only logical answer is to recreate that rivalry - or if that's impossible, create one of equal structure. That's it!

Roxanne: What?

John Cusack snaps out of his dream-like haze realizing she's heard every word.

"john cusack": Oh, sorry, sorry. Just rehearsing for a part...where I play a man who talks to himself at inappropriate times.

In a sudden rush, he rises out of his chair.

"john cusack": I have to go right now, but I'd really like to see you again - if that's alright.

Roxanne looks up at him - She can't help but laugh at the craziness of the situation.

Roxanne: I'd love that.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - DAY

Master storms in the office to find Plato and Einstein playing darts with the original Mona Lisa.

Einstein: Got her nose!

Master mind: I've got it! 32.



Everyone stops what they're doing upon seeing that their master has returned.

Master mind: I've got it!

Master mind: It's plain and simple. Extraordinary minds need extraordinary stimulation. Without that stimulus they wither and die. Therefore, there is only one logical conclusion: I must create a new superhero.

Einstein: Yeah, maybe that's not such hot idea...

Master mind: (ignoring him) Prepare for Operation Superhero Genesis!

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - LABORATORY - DAY

The lab is slick, white and ultra modern.

Dressed in a lab coat, Master Mind enters through a SLIDING GLASS DOOR rubbing his hands excitedly.

Master mind: Prepare the subject.

He glances down into a large HOLE in the floor to see a naked thirty year old man, SEVERS, shivering. Above the hole, a huge vat dangles precariously.

Master Mind steps behind a glass partition next to Plato and Einstein.

Master mind (cont'd): Plato, pour the toxic waste.

Plato throws a switch causing the vat to tip hundreds of gallons of green and brown goo into the hole.

Master mind (cont'd): Drainage.

The slime is sucked out through the floor, leaving a goo- soaked Severs. 33.



Master Mind looks into the pit.

Master mind (cont'd): Well, Severs?

Severs: I feel fine. Just a little sticky, but aside from that everything's completely -

BOOM - Severs explodes. A hail of blood and tissue covers Master Mind and his men. For a good ten seconds nobody moves an inch. Finally...

Master mind: Okay then.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY    - LABORATORY - DAY

Through a glass WATER TANK we see a man breathing normally.

Master mind: And this one?

Plato: We attached gills to him. He can breath under water.

Master mind: Ah. Does he have extraordinary strength?

Plato: Well...no.

Master mind: Can he fly?

Plato: No.

Master mind: Resilient to weapons fire?

Plato: No.

Master mind: He just breathes under water, then.

Plato: Ah...yeah. 34.



Master Mind rolls his eyes and walks away.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - LABORATORY - DAY

The next guinea-pig, STENWICK, is standing in a sealed glass tube not much wider than himself.

Master mind: Plato, the radioactive spider, please.

Plato throws the switch DROPPING A SINGLE SPIDER onto Stenwick's arm.

Stenwick looks and winces as it bites him.

Stenwick: Ow!

He brushes the spider off.

Master mind: Anything, Stenwick?

Stenwick: (shaken) No. Ah...sir, I didn't know this was about spiders. I have a pretty severe case of arachnophobia.

Master Mind thinks for a moment, then turns to Plato.

Master mind: We're gonna need more venom.

Plato throws another switch, this time DUMPING THOUSANDS OF SPIDERS on poor Stenwick. His SCREAMS begin to fade as he's engulfed with swarms of crawling arachnids.

Master mind (cont'd): How `bout now, Stenwick? ....Stenwick?

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - OFFICE - DAY

Master Mind is pacing back and forth. The muted TV plays in the background.

Master mind: This has proven to be a challenge. I just don't know what I want. What do I want? 35.



He stares at Einstein, Da Vinci and Plato, but they offer no advice.

Master mind (cont'd): I want a man of moral fiber with a strong sense of right and wrong. Someone who doesn't seek power - instead, they must have it thrust upon them and find, within themselves, the courage to rise to the occasion.

Einstein lets out a short laugh, getting everyone's attention.

Einstein: Yeah, well, it sounds like what you want is Uberman.

Master Mind snaps the fingers of his non-metal hand.

Master mind: That's it! Why make a copy when the real thing will do?

The lackeys look at each other, they can't believe what they're hearing.

Einstein: I was just kidding, sir. In case you forgot, you actually burned Uberman alive.

Master mind: Then we'll make a new one. Plato, bring me the box!

Minutes later:

Master Mind and the lackeys stand in a circle around a small table.

Plato places a STAINLESS STEEL CHEST in the tables center.

As Master Mind opens it, he's immediately doused in WHITE GLOW emanating from inside.

Master mind: Behold - Uberessence. The very thing that gave Uberman his superhuman powers. 36.



Einstein: Where the hell did you get that?

Master mind: Oh, I shot him with a power sucking gun and had this idea to use this to clone a whole army of evil Ubermen. I'm not sure why I never got around to following up with that.

Plato: I believe he defeated you before you could, master.

Master mind: ...Right. Man, he was good!

Da vinci: You want another volunteer, sir?

Master mind: Not another volunteer driven by the need for personal gain. Somebody else, somebody pure.

Master Mind turns to see an INTERVIEW WITH HAL playing on the muted television. Underneath his face is a blue caption with white lettering that reads: "Hal Stewart - Metro City's Newest Hero?"

News reporter: ...who risked his own life to save that of a young mother and her child.

Hal: Please, please, you're embarrassing me. I saw someone in need and I helped them. What more can we ask of ourselves. I ask you, what more?

A smile creeps across the evil one's face.

Master mind (cont'd): Somebody like him!

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

Plato is sitting in the van, staring into a pair of binoculars as he speaks on a cellphone. 37.



Plato: Yeah, sir. This guy is a real piece of work. He used to teach bowling at Kingpin's.

INT. MASTER MIND'S HIDEOUT - DAY

Master Mind is sitting with his feet up on a computer console as he speaks to Plato.

Master mind: (into phone) A modest profession to brilliantly hide his true heroic nature. I love it.

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

Plato: Then you are absolutely going to love this -

We follow Plato's line of sight across the street where we see HAL PLAYING WITH A LARGE GROUP OF BLIND CHILDREN.

Plato: - He volunteers at a school for the blind.

INT. MASTER MIND'S HIDEOUT - DAY

Intrigued, he suddenly sits up in his chair.

Master mind: He volunteers. He doesn't ask for any reward for his deeds. The fates are shining down on me. This Mr. Stewart is truly an unselfish soul.

EXT. BLIND SCHOOL - DAY

From a distance, Hal seems to be consoling an upset child who's sitting on a rock. But up close...

Hal: You greedy little bastard. I already gave you a twenty.

Blind kid: Hey, you want me to play along? Then pay up, bitch! 38.



Hal: Fine, but you better be convincing.

He gives the kid a bill out of his wallet and looks over his shoulder to see a HOT TEACHER walking toward them.

Hal: Here she comes, go to work.

Like a miniature Brando, the blind kid buries his face in his hands and begins to cry.

Blind kid: (weeping) Why can't I see! Why God?

Hal puts a warm consoling hand on the weeping boy's shoulder.

Hal: Hey, Peter. C'mon champ, let me look at you.

The Hot Teacher stops and curiously watches from a distance.

The boy looks up at Hal, tears running down his dark sunglasses - he should get an Oscar.

Hal: You know, in life we're all given no more than we can bear. This happened to you maybe because you were meant to rise above it - Maybe to be an inspiration to the other little Peteys out there.

Blind kid: You really think so, Hal?

Hal: Hey, does it LOOK like I'm lying? Now c'mon, go feel your way to class before you get your little butt suspended.

The boy stands up and is about to take off.

Hal: Petey, wait a minute.

Hal uses his shirt sleeve to wipe the tears away from the boy's face before sending him on his way. 39.



The Hot Teacher grabs her chest. Her heart is about to absolutely melt.

Hal: Don't run into anything!

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Plato lowers his binoculars. From his perspective, Hal should be next in line for popehood.

Plato: I think I've seen enough, sir. This is your guy.

Master mind (o.s.): (over radio) Then return to base. We have much work to do.

Plato starts up the van and pulls away.

INT. BAR - DAY

It's a busy night. A couple of trucker types are shooting pool as the bartender slings drinks.

Hal is nursing a beer at the bar when he suddenly notices a very ATTRACTIVE WOMAN sitting next to him.

As he goes to straighten his stool-posture, Hal suddenly catches himself on the bar's TELEVISION - it's a story about how he saved the woman and her baby at the construction site.

He turns back to the Attractive Woman next to him, then back to the TV. A plan of attack is forming.

Hal: (obviously playing it up for the woman's benefit) Oh, there it is again. This is really getting embarrassing now.

The woman looks up at the screen and gives Hal a double-take.

ATTRACTIVE   WOMAN Oh my God! It's you!   You're the man who saved that woman   and her baby the other day! It is   you, isn't it?

TRUCKER #1, getting a drink at the bar next to them, OVERHEARS. 40.



Hal rolls his eyes and puts his hands up in the air.

Hal: (to Attractive Woman) Oh, crap. You got me.

TRUCKER#1 taps Hal on the shoulder.

Trucker#1: Let me tell you something. That was just about the bravest damn thing I've ever witnessed. (he turns to the rest of the bar) Hey, everybody! This guy's the hero from TV!

The bar ERUPTS IN CHEERS.

Moments later:

Hal is riding on the shoulders of TRUCKER#2 and TRUCKER#3 as `I'm Holding Out For A Hero' plays on the jukebox.

TRUCKER#1 suddenly puts his hands in the air. The room quickly goes silent.

Trucker#1: I want to give you something.

He reaches into his pocket and takes out a medal. He holds it up in the air for everyone to see.

Trucker#1 (cont'd): Lost my whole platoon. They were a lot a good boys, a lot of good boys. That was just the way things were in "The Grenada." I'd rather a real hero have this.

Trucker#1 gives the medal to a speechless Hal.

Attractive woman: Hey, you're on TV again.

The crowd looks up at the Television.

Television - continuous:

The anchor man, BRAD HELMS (early 40's, amazing mustache), suddenly has a memo passed to him. 41.



Brad helms: This just in. Upon a second look at that tape from this morning, which we'll now replay for you, it appears it was not the heroic act it first seemed to be.

The tape shows Hal running in slow motion.

BRAD HELMS (O.S.) (CONT'D) With the tape slowed down you can actually see the man push the woman and her child out of the way in an effort to save his own life.

The tape shows Hal, in a clear act of self-preservation, pushing the woman and child out of the way.

CUT BACK TO:

INT. BAR - CONTINUOUS

In unison, everyone turns their heads back to Hal.

Hal: I guess that looks kinda bad.

Trucker#1 snatches his medal back.

EXT. NEARBY ROOF - NIGHT

Master Mind, Da Vinci and Plato look down, spotting Hal cutting through a dark alley.

Da vinci: There he is, boss.

Da Vinci hands Master Mind a fantastic looking silver rifle.

Master mind: Now, we're sure this won't kill him?

Plato: Yes, sir. He'll just feel a slight electrical shock.

Master mind: Good.

Master Mind raises the rifle and aims it at Hal. 42.



EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Hal wipes the blood from his nose with his shirtsleeve.

A LIGHTENING BOLT suddenly zaps Hal in the back. His teeth spark and arc electrons as his entire body shakes and shudders violently. He finally collapses, knocking over a row of garbage cans.

EXT. NEARBY ROOF - NIGHT

An angry Master Mind slaps Plato.

Master mind: Slight electrical shock?

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Hal lies flat on his back, his jacket smoldering.

Dazed, he slowly rises to his feet and looks up at the sky.

Hal: God, I hate the weather in this city.

Hal walks off into the night as he attempts to slap the emitting smoke from his jacket.

EXT. NEARBY ROOF - NIGHT

Master Mind turns to Da Vinci.

Master mind: Follow him.

INT. HAL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

It's a dirty, small studio. Laundry lies everywhere, dishes are piled in the sink and the litter box looks like a minefield.

Hal comes staggering in. Through his POV we see the lights wobble and streak like a hallucination.

He shakes his head trying to clear thing up, but it looks worse.

Hal makes his way to the kitchen table and plops down on a chair. The room begins to swim.

His CAT jumps on the table and sits down in front of him. 43.



From Hal's POV the cat's face looks like we're seeing it through a kaleidoscope. Hal seems fascinated by it.

Cat: You don't look so good, man.

Hal: I don't feel good. I was struck by freaking lightening.

Suddenly Hal realizes his cat's talking to him.

Hal (cont'd): AAAAAAHHHHH! You can talk?

Cat: No, you're just hallucinating. By the way, we're out of orange juice.

Hal: AAAAAAHHHHH!

Hal jumps up, trips over a cardboard box and knocks himself out on the coffee table.

INT. HAL'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Hal lies in the same position we left him last night.

He sits up and grabs his head. He looks like he has the worst hangover in the world.

Finally, he remembers last night. He looks around, but not really sure what he's looking for.

Hal: Man...

Shaking his head, he walks to the kitchen and opens the refrigerator.

He pulls out an orange juice container and puts it to his mouth. It's empty.

As if suddenly remembering something he looks from the carton to the cat, who is busy cleaning himself.

He shakes the thought from his mind.

Bathroom:

Hal lifts the seat and unbuckles his pants. 44.



Hal's face:

He stares at the ceiling with half closed eyes. The inevitable sound of urine hitting water starts. A content look washes over his face.

There is a distinct sound of porcelain CRACKING and SPLINTERING.

The sound intensifies. Hal looks down to see his URINE STREAM SMASHING THE TOILET.

Hal (cont'd): Oh, God!

He whips his stream away only to cut a LONG RIP IN THE WALL.

Hal (cont'd): Oh, God!

He freaks out and begins to lose control of his flow as it destroys everything he accidently aims at; the bathroom mirror, a bottle of cheap cologne, the bathroom window.

Hal (cont'd): Oh, God!

He aims back for the toilet, which is pretty much rubble now, to see the floor give way.

Finally, the pee stops and he glances down the hole.

He sees his downstairs NEIGHBOR sitting at his breakfast table. He has a fork halfway to his mouth as he stares at the smashed toilet on his pancakes.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Hal turns the corner to see his bus pulling away from the stop.

Hal: Wait!

He starts running after it.

ZOOM - HE TAKES OFF LIKE LIGHTENING.

Hal (cont'd): Whoa, whoa, whoa!

Unable to stop, he SLAMS INTO THE BACK OF THE BUS and falls back to the ground. 45.



As the bus continues on he sees an INDENTATION of his torso right below the rear window.

Stunned, to say the least, he rises to his feet.

Hal (cont'd): Something's not right here.

He slaps himself in the face as hard as he can.

Hal (cont'd): Wake up! Wake up, Hal!

Honk!:

Hal spins around to see a car barreling toward him.

He goes to jump out of the way - ZOOM - he FLIES TWO STORIES UP, nails a building and comes crashing back down to the sidewalk.

Hal sits up, disheveled and scared.

Hal (cont'd): Okay, okay. Let's get it together, man.

He closes his eyes in an attempt to will back his sanity.

Hal (cont'd): This is just some sort of...episode. It will pass, it will pass.

He opens his eyes and looks down the street. A BEAUTIFUL NAKED WOMAN is coming toward him.

Hal (cont'd): Well, not too fast I hope.

As she passes him and turns the corner out of his view he catches ANOTHER NAKED WOMAN - an old disgusting one.

Hal (cont'd): Yes, fast, fast!

He turns away from her in horror only to see AN ENTIRE BLOCK OF NAKED PEOPLE going about their business.

He rubs his eyes and looks down the street again. Everyone has returned to a clothed state. 46.



He relaxes a little until he looks down and notices that he's floating a foot off the ground.

Hal (cont'd): I think I need to go home.

INT. HAL'S APARTMENT - DAY

Hal's front door CREAKS as it slowly opens, revealing Master Mind.

He walks over to the bathroom and smiles to himself as he notices the giant hole in the floor.

Master mind: Welcome to your second birth, Hal Stewart.

Master Mind continues to survey the room. He stops to look over a "KARATE KID" POSTER on Hal's living room wall.

He focuses on the majestic image of Pat Morita teaching a young Ralph Macchio to kick.

Master mind (cont'd): Instruction is very important in the formative years. Every hero needs a mentor, a father figure to look up to.

He presses his special watch, causing his body to MORPH INTO THE SPITTING-IMAGE OF PAT MORITA.

"pat morita": Perfect.

INT. HAL'S APARTMENT - DAY

Hal enters, grabs a bottle of vodka from atop of the fridge and takes a long pull from it.

Voice (o.s.): A man will usually find that if he drinks from a bottle, eventually, the bottle drinks from him.

Hal does a SPIT TAKE. In the corner a darkened figure stands.

Hal: Who are you!? 47.



Voice: I am the guide on your journey. Fate has chosen you to be it's champion.

Pat Morita steps out from the shadows.

Hal passes out again.

Later:

We are close on Hal's face as his eyes flutter open. He appears to be lying on the couch.

He hunches up on his elbows, looks around, but everything is as it seems.

He lays his head back down.

Hal: Thank God. It was a dream. Man, I must be losing it.

A voice sounds right next to his ear.

"pat morita" (o.s.): You know you're out of orange juice?

Hal leaps up to find he's been resting his head on Pat's lap.

Hal: Jesus! This isn't happening, this isn't happening.

Hal backs away and trips over a box.

"pat morita": Calm. All things must be filtered through calmness.

Hal: Bullshit! Sometimes it's best to freak out.

"pat morita": I think we must work on your attitude first.

Hal: Look I'm gonna call the cops in about two seconds if you don't get out of here. 48.



Pat rises and walks to Hal. He's so calm it makes Hal calm.

"pat morita": Are you calm now?

Hal: Yeah, I'm okay.

Pat slaps him across the face hard.

"pat morita": Good, because we've got a lot of work to do.

Hal grabs his jaw.

Hal: What the hell was that for?

"pat morita": Rule number one: expect the unexpected.

Hal: Can you just tell me what this is all about?

"pat morita": The heavens are not in the habit of bestowing a gift such as this to just anyone. You are being rewarded for being a man of great moral fortitude with an unwavering belief in humanity.

Hal: That's me alright.

"pat morita": I am to train you so you may fulfill your destiny to defeat the great menace to Metro City: Master Mind.

Pat gets up and walks toward the door.

"pat morita" (cont'd): Come.

Hal: We're are we going? 49.



"pat morita": To train.

EXT. PAT'S CAR - DAY

Pat is sitting in the driver's seat. The car is bumping up and down.

"pat morita": Strength is just as much in the mind as it is the muscle. Remember, both need to be exercised.

We PULL BACK to see Hal lifting the car up over his head. He's hardly straining.

Hal: I'M LIFTING A FREAKING CAR!!!

Pat leans on the HORN.

"pat morita": Hey, Corky? You listening?

Two highly attractive female joggers run by. They're clearly impressed with Hal's show of strength. He smiles and mouths a "hello."

Hal: Yeah, work both muscles.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Pat cocks back the chamber of a .357 MAGNUM. He holds it up and carefully takes aim...at Hal's chest.

"pat morita": Trust me.

Hal: What are you doing!?

"pat morita": An invulnerability test. Something wrong?

Hal: Uh...yeah. I would prefer not to get shot. Do not fire that thing!

Frustrated, Pat lowers the gun. 50.



"pat morita": You're bulletproof.

Hal: Okay, do you know that for sure?

Pat quickly aims and fires.

Hal lets out a high pitched scream as the bullet ricochets off his chest.

"pat morita": I do now.

Hal looks down at his chest, not so much as a scratch.

Hal: You suck.

EXT. SKY - DAY

Hal is in the air flying in a sitting position. He's weaving back and forth.

Hal: Ice Man, I got a bogie on my tail. Two Russian Migs coming in hard and fast.

"pat morita": Hey!

Hal: What?

Hal looks down to see Pat Morita yelling at him from the roof of a building down below.

"pat morita": What did I tell you? Stomach down, hands up.

Hal sighs and assumes the proper superhero in-flight position.

Hal: God, I feel so gay.

Pat's CELL PHONE begins to RING. He answers it.

"pat morita": (in Master Mind voice) What is it? 51.



Roxanne (v.o.): John?

Pat panics. He looks up to make sure no one is in earshot.

He sees Hal now doing somersaults in the air.

Hal: YEEEE HAWWWW!

Pat turns his attention back to the phone, talking in his John Cusack voice.

"pat morita": (in Cusack voice) Yes, it's John Cusack.

Roxanne (v.o.): Hi, it's Roxanne. Listen, I...I really enjoyed talking with you the other day.

"pat morita": ...As did I.

Roxanne (v.o.): Great. God, I feel really silly, and if you have a lot going on I totally understand. But, I was wondering if you maybe wanted to have lunch.

He can't believe what he's hearing.

"pat morita": (excited) I'd love to!

He quickly recovers his composure.

"pat morita" (cont'd): I mean, I AM a little hungry.

Roxanne (v.o.): Great. How does the park sound, around noon-ish?

"pat morita": Sure!

Roxanne (v.o.): Great, see you then. 52.



Pat hangs up the phone and returns it to his pocket as Hal lands behind him.

Hal: WHOOOOA! Man, that is so cool. It's like fly - Oh my God, I almost said it was like flying.

"pat morita": For the rest of the day I want you to continue to practice your flying posture.

Hal: Why, where're ya going?

"pat morita": ...To do something...mysterious ...and Asian.

Hal: Say no more, bro. I'll just keep at it, then.

EXT. PARK - DAY

John Cusack and Roxanne eat WRAPPED SANDWICHES while walking through Metro City Park.

Roxanne: How's your sandwich?

"john cusack": It's quite delicious.

Roxanne: Hope you don't think I'm too forward. Some men are intimidated when a woman asks them out. I just find you really easy to talk to.

"john cusack": And I you.

Roxanne: You know, you're not at all like you are in the movies.

"john cusack": I'm not? 53.



Roxanne: Yeah. I don't know - You have this strange, refined way of speaking.

"john cusack": I do? That is most interesting.

Roxanne: Anyway, when we were talking the other day I just felt, even though we only talked for a couple of hours, that we've known each other for years.

"john cusack": I know just what you mean.

Roxanne bites into her sandwich.

Roxanne: You know what? This sandwich is disgusting.

She tosses it in a nearby garbage can.

Roxanne (cont'd): Of course I already ate half of it. I wonder what that says about my character?

"john cusack": It means you don't give up on a sandwich. You see that it has potential, and you give it every chance to be all it can be.

Roxanne smiles at his analogy.

Roxanne: Thanks, but knowing me, I was probably projecting my expectations of what a lunch should be on the sandwich. It might have been okay at first, but I just made it bitter.

John Cusack notices Roxanne's smile starting to fade.

"john cusack": Is that what happened with your last sandwich - I mean, boyfriend? 54.



Roxanne: When I look back, I probably shouldn't of expected so much from him. He was already a giving person. You know, one of those go out and save the world types.

"john cusack": I've run into a few.

Roxanne: I was selfish, I guess. I didn't want to share him with anybody else.

"john cusack": It sounds like he was a special man.

Roxanne: They broke the mold.

John Cusack arches his eyebrow in a very familiar manner.

"john cusack": Perhaps not.

INT. ABANDONED WAREHOUSE - DAY

Hal walks up to Pat Morita sporting a Lone Ranger-type mask and wearing a purple and red superhero costume. It's not unlike Uberman's except for a giant "T" on his chest. (From here on, Hal is referred to as TITAN)

Titan: What's the "T" stand for?

"pat morita": Titan.

Titan: What's that supposed to mean?

"pat morita": It's from Roman mythology. Zeus's father...oh, just go with it. You look perfect.

Titan: I don't think this mask is big enough. Are you sure no one is gonna recognize me? 55.



"pat morita": It's fine, just don't slouch. It's all in the posture.

He grabs Titan's shoulders like a proud papa.

"pat morita" (cont'd): It is time.

INT. BANK - DAY

There is a long line of people snaked around the velvet ropes. They're all waiting for their chance at the one open teller window.

Four men wearing BEATLES MASKS(JOHN,PAUL,GEORGE,AND RINGO)and CARRYING SHOTGUNS enter the bank.

John fires a shot in the air, sending everyone into an immediate panic.

John: Alright folks, this is a robbery. Nobody moves - yadda, yadda, yadda...

Ringo jumps over the teller wall and starts stuffing bills into a bag.

As John and Paul cover the crowd, George goes to the corner office and puts a gun to the BANK MANAGER'S head.

George: The safe. Let's go.

Bank manager: Okay, just don't hurt anyone.

George: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

George leads him out by the collar.

CRASH - Titan smashes through the window and lands in a bold superhero stance with hands on hips.

Titan: Well, boys, there's no need for all this just to get the free toaster.

Paul cocks his gun. 56.



Paul: What are you suppose to be?

We move in for a nice dramatic close up.

Titan: Justice.

George: Well, justice, suck on this...

George, John and Paul open fire on Titan.

He just stands there and yawns as the bullets bounce off him.

With their guns empty the three just stare at him in amazement.

Titan: Now it's my turn.

He turns to George.

Titan (cont'd): Hey, George, here comes the sun.

Titan grabs George and throws him into a fluorescent light fixture in the ceiling.

Paul tries to run for the door. Titan snatches the collar of his jacket.

Titan (cont'd): Say, Paul, your mother should know...that you're a scumbag.

He tosses Paul out the window and into a parked DELIVERY TRUCK.

Titan turns around just as John hits him with the butt of his shotgun. It instantly breaks apart in his hands.

Titan lifts him like a rag doll up into the air.

Titan (cont'd): John, all you need is love...

He throws John who lands on top of a cubical wall - GROIN FIRST.

Titan (cont'd): ...and a good urologist. 57.



Titan effortlessly hops over the teller wall to find Ringo cowering on the floor.

He grabs him by the shirt and lifts him up.

Hal: Well, Ringo...um...um...you're under arrest.

EXT. BANK - DAY

Titan walks out of the bank with Ringo and George under his arm. He's suddenly swarmed by a group of television reporters, including Roxanne.

Across the street is Pat Morita. He watches Titan's first news conference with great anxiety.

Bank manager: (to Hal) On behalf of the First National Bank of Metro City, I'd like to offer you a reward for your act of bravery.

He hands Titan a check.

Titan: (reading) Ten thousand dollars!

Titan looks over to Pat, who violently shakes his head no.

Titan (cont'd): (unenthusiastically) I...can't except this. Law and order is it's own...um...reward.

Pat gives him the thumbs up. Pat turns, suddenly seeing Roxanne with her camera crew. Captivated, his eyes lock on her.

Meanwhile, Roxanne and her cameraman, SETH, are maneuvering around the crowd to get closer to Titan.

Brad helms (o.s.): Not so fast, Roxanne.

They both turn to see Roxanne's reporter rival Brad Helms, Geraldo without the class, and his cameraman, FRANK.

Brad helms: This story's mine. 58.



Roxanne: Listen, Brad. We were just in the area. I was just trying to -

Brad helms: I've been in this business long enough to know pretty well what you were "just trying to do." Besides, I heard you couldn't take the big game anymore and were put on fluff detail?

Dejected, Roxanne turns and motions for Seth to turn the camera off.

Seth: You're not gonna take that from him, are you?

Roxanne: He's right. Old habit, I guess. (to Brad) We'll get out of your way.

As they walk off, Brad makes a comment to Frank loud enough for her to hear.

Brad helms: Besides, I'm sure there's a pancake supper somewhere that needs covering.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - OFFICE - DAY

On television:

We see the news conference on the bank's steps. In the corner of the screen is written: "recorded earlier."

Brad helms: For months now, since the death of Uberman, the citizens of Metro City have been holding out for a hero. Well, it appears they won't have to hold out for much longer as a new costumed crusader has suddenly stormed onto the scene. Today, at the Metro Savings and Trust, a masked mystery man single-handedly defeated "The Fab Four Gang." Just who is this new caped avenger?

Brad holds the microphone to Titan's face. 59.



Brad helms: I'm sure all of our viewers are now wondering, what's the "T" stand for?

Titan: It's a message to all the scum out there. Uberman may be gone, but Metro City has a new protector, and his name is "Tighten!"

Another reporter leans in.

Reporter: How do you spell that?

We PULL BACK to see Plato and Da Vinci watching this spectacle. Master Mind is sitting with them, reading a NEWSPAPER.

Master mind: (reading paper) Oh, for heaven's sake. I can't believe it. He misspelled his name.

Master Mind holds up the newspaper. The headline reads "Metro's New Hero: Tighten."

Master mind (cont'd): No matter, I suppose.

Master Mind throws the paper on the floor and begins to pace around the room with his arms folded behind his back.

Master mind (cont'd): We've now fully established Titan as Metro City's hero. They will love him just as they loved Uberman. Everything is going according to plan.

Einstein leans over and whispers in Plato's ear.

Einstein: (whispering) Yeah, if the plan is getting us in jail.

Master Mind turns around, facing Einstein. He walks over, standing face to face with the rebellious henchmen. 60.



Master mind: You know, Einstein, maybe I should have called you Socrates. He also didn't know when to keep his thoughts to himself.

Einstein: I just fail to see the point in all of this. I mean, why are we creating another superhero when it was such a pain in the ass for you to get rid of the other one? I mean, Uberman is destroyed, we should be using this opportunity to...to...

Master mind: To what?

Einstein: I don't know. To take over the weather, space, the world - whatever super villains are SUPPOSED to do.

Master mind: The reason someone like you will always be a minion is because you have no foresight. We take over the earth, like you said. Then what? Women? Cars? Money? Even the grandest treasures will lose their lustre if you don't have someone to hold them over.

Einstein throws up his hands. He's had enough. He pulls off his wig and throws it to the floor.

Einstein: That's it! This balance of the force bullshit is getting way too Oprah for me. I'm blowing. Who's with me?

Master mind: You dare?

Einstein: Yeah, I dare. I'm sick of wearing stupid costumes, and I'm sick of working for a super villain who's turning into a softie. 61.



Plato and Da Vinci's mouths drop to the floor. They turn to Master Mind for his rebuttal.

Master mind: What - did - you - call me?

Einstein: You heard me. You used to be an inhuman monster, now look at you. You're creating super heroes, you don't go with us on robberies anymore, it's been days since you threatened anyone, oh, and not to mention this Roxanne Ritchi thing.

Master mind: THAT is none of your business, knave!

Einstein: Hey, you guys haven't sealed the deal yet, have you?

Master mind: Silence!

Einstein: (In a woman's voice) Oh, Master, your head is so big.

Master mind: I'm warning you, Einstein.

Einstein: (In a woman's voice) Take me!

Master mind: I said silence!

With his metal gauntlet Master Mind grabs Einstein by the throat and lifts him into the air.

Einstein looks frightened as he tries to pry himself free of Master Mind's grip.

Master Mind's eyes soften as if his heart is suddenly not into what he's about to do. He let's Einstein drop to the floor.

Master mind (cont'd): Get out of my sight. 62.



EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Roxanne and John Cusack are eating on the outside patio of a fancy restaurant.

Roxanne: Don't get me wrong, I love being a reporter. I don't think I could do anything else. It's the consequences of what we do that I'm having a problem with.

He listens intently as he refills her glass with wine.

"john cusack": That's where journalistic responsibility comes in, no?

Roxanne: It's supposed to.

"john cusack": Sounds to me like you're running from something.

Roxanne: I got someone I cared about killed. If it wasn't for me, he wouldn't have been involved.

John suddenly gets a disturbed look in his eye, realizing what she's talking about.

He reaches across the table and takes her hand.

"john cusack": You can't blame yourself. My father used to say each of us must answer the great call to truly feel alive.

Roxanne: Was he an actor?

"john cusack": ...No. He was...a landscaper. And a horrible one. I mean he would fail time and time again at his...landscaping. And sometimes he'd get pretty beaten up or thrown in jail -

Roxanne: Jail? 63.



"john cusack": My point is he took the good with the bad. He grew a little each time. Improved, learned.

Roxanne: Was he ever successful?

"john cusack": God, no...but don't let deter you.

Roxanne laughs.:

Roxanne: Thanks for this. You know, this is embarrassing, but it's been a long time since I -

It's starting to lightly sprinkle. Roxanne looks up.

Roxanne (cont'd): I think it's starting to rain. We might want to find a table inside.

"john cusack": What were you gonna say?

Roxanne: Oh, I was gonna say...It's been a long time since...well, I've been with someone I...enjoy being with.

John Cusack smiles warmly and raises his glass for a toast.

"john cusack": To people who enjoy being with each other.

They go to clang glasses, when the rain suddenly causes John Cusack's disguise generator to short.

His true form of Master Mind is briefly revealed to Roxanne as a BOLT OF ELECTRICITY encircles his body.

Roxanne drops her glass and jumps out of her seat.

Master mind (cont'd): Oh, no. Don't look at me.

LIKE A BROKEN TV the image keeps switching between MASTER MIND AND JOHN CUSACK. 64.



As Master Mind starts to franticly slap at his watch, the Cusack disguise begins to hold steady.

He nonchalantly returns to cutting his steak.

"john cusack": Okay, never mind that. Now, where were we?

Roxanne grabs his glass and throws the drink in his face, causing the generator to short out permanently.

Master Mind now sits in his true blue form.

Roxanne: Oh my God.

Master mind: You're not gonna get all freaky about this, are you?

Roxanne: This...this is too much, even for you. God, I go out with you, tell you my innermost thoughts.

Master mind: I only did this because I wanted to talk to you on the same level. You know, without all the baggage?

Roxanne: Baggage? You burned my boyfriend alive, you sick son-of-a-bitch!

Master mind: You see, that's exactly what I'm talking about.

Roxanne starts to walk away.

Master mind (cont'd): Roxanne!

Roxanne: Stay away from me.

Master Mind sinks back down to his chair. Despite the now heavy rain bombarding him, he returns to his food.

Several resturaunt patron's are looking at him through the window. 65.



Our villain turns to them, giving them a villainous glare.

Master mind: What?

INT. MASTER MIND'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Master Mind is lying on his back, wide awake.

Master mind: (mumbling to himself) Stupid. What was I thinking? Plato, it's his fault. He's the one who sent me on this weak-willed path. I'll filet his scrotum for this. Me, a creature of evil, in love with Roxanne Ritchi. Preposterous. I hardly give such matters thought

He rolls onto his side. He yawns and closes his eyes.

Suddenly, they shoot back open.

CUT TO:

EXT. ROXANNE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Master Mind pulls up in a blue Rolls Royce, across the street from Roxanne's apartment

He stares up at the building, hoping to catch a glimpse of her.

Finally, she appears, primping her hair in her apartment window's reflection.

Master mind: I should just go up there and just lay it all out to her. "Roxanne, I like you - I always have. Oh, and I'm sorry I blew up your ex. words) Yeah, that would go over like a pants-less clown at a child's birthday party. What the hell am I even doing here? Who cares what she thinks? I'm a supervillain and here I am acting like a love struck schoolboy. Forget this. I control my own destiny! 66.



(realizing the absurdity of his He turns the ignition key - NOTHING HAPPENS. He repeats but gets the same results.

Master mind (cont'd): (disgusted) Perfect.

INT. ROXANNE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

She pulls a pack of smokes off her night stand. Empty.

Roxanne: Damn.

She grabs her long coat and throws it over her robe.

EXT. ROXANNE'S APARTMENT BUILDING

Roxanne steps outside.:

Roxanne: Please be open.

Across the street is a liquor store. The light is still on.

Roxanne (cont'd): Thank God.

She walks across the street, passing in front of Master Mind's car.

Spotting her, he sinks down in his seat.

Roxanne walks by, totally unaware of his presence.

Relieved, Master Mind sits back up and watches her go into the store.

INT. LIQUOR STORE - NIGHT

Roxanne walks up to an elderly Korean SHOPKEEPER at the counter.

Roxanne: A pack of Lady Strikes, please.

EXT. MASTER MIND'S CAR - NIGHT

Master Mind is talking on his cell phone.

Master mind: Hello, Triple A? 67.



He suddenly spots something across the street.

EXT. LIQUOR STORE - NIGHT

A HOODLUM walks up to the entrance of the store and pulls out a gun from under his coat.

EXT. MASTER MIND'S CAR - NIGHT

Master Mind stares in shock.

Master mind: I'll call you back.

He hangs up the phone and watches the Hoodlum go inside the store.

INT. LIQUOR STORE - NIGHT

The Hoodlum reaches across the counter and grabs a fist full of cash from the register.

Shopkeeper: Hey!

Shotgun hoodlum: Shut up, Gramps.

He turns to Roxanne, spotting a GOLD NECKLACE around her neck.

Shotgun hoodlum (cont'd): Gimme that necklace!

Roxanne: I don't think so.

The Hoodlum cocks his shotgun.

Shotgun hoodlum: I said give it to me!

Master mind (o.s.): The lady said no.

The hoodlum turns around to see Master Mind in the doorway holding a STRANGE-LOOKING HAND CANNON (GOO GUN) with knobs and blinking lights.

The hoodlum starts to laugh. 68.



Shotgun hoodlum: What the hell's that? A super soaker?

Master mind: No, it's a goo gun.

The hoodlum turns his gun to Master Mind.

Shotgun hoodlum: Yeah, what's it do?

Master mind: It goos.

Master Mind fires the cannon. It instantly covers the store in a cloud of SMOKE.

The smoke clears to reveal the hoodlum STUCK TO THE WALL, covered in a thick, GREEN GUNK.

Roxanne stares at him, dumbfounded.

Master mind (cont'd): It's...a prototype.

Master Mind starts to walk out when he's suddenly confronted by the shopkeeper.

Shopkeeper: I know you! You Master Brain guy. You a hero.

Master Mind points the goo gun at him.

Master mind: Don't - EVER - say that again.

EXT. LIQUOR STORE - NIGHT

Master Mind walks out with the cannon resting on his shoulder like he's a short timer in Da Nang. Roxanne follows shortly behind him.

Roxanne: Hey!

Master Mind turns around.

Roxanne (cont'd): Are you following me or something? 69.



Master mind: Don't flatter yourself.

He turns away and continues walking. Roxanne runs in front of him blocking his way.

Roxanne: Don't walk away from me when I'm talking to you.

Finally it occurs to her what's going on.

Roxanne (cont'd): What a minute...all that stuff you use to say to me when Uberman was alive - about me being the loyal queen by your side as you rule over Metro City. That wasn't just super villain rhetoric, was it? You actually meant it!

Master mind: My, someone has a rather high opinion of themselves.

They stare at each other in silence, their glares locked in conflict.

Roxanne: (coldly) Do you really think I would be with someone like you?

This stings Master Mind to the bone. And after a brief contemplation, he reaches the only logical, painful conclusion.

Master mind: No.

With that, Master Mind exits into the night, leaving Roxanne with a baffled expression on her face.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY    - NIGHT

Master Mind enters in a huff. Da Vinci closes the door behind him as Plato notices his master's agitated state.

Plato: Everything alright, sir?

Master Mind GRABS PLATO BY THE GROIN with his metal gauntlet causing Plato's eyes to bulge in pain. 70.



Master mind: (overly calm) Fine, why do you ask?

Plato: You...just...seem...

Master Mind tightens his grip.

Master mind: Go on.

Plato: ...distracted.

Master Mind releases him.

Master mind: Just with business, my minion. Just with business. I've decided it is time.

Plato: You mean?

Master mind: Yes, we've created our hero, now it's time to give him a little motivation.

Da vinci: How do we do that?

Master mind: To be simply good is not enough. A hero must be driven by an almost relentless desire to right a wrong that can never be corrected.

Plato: You mean?

Master mind: Yes, he must lose someone near and dear to him - his father figure. Gentlemen, it's time for Operation Mentor Kill!

EXT. SKY OVER METRO CITY - DAY

Titan flies high over and through the city, under bridges, between buildings, etc. He's not really working, just enjoying himself. 71.



INT. WOMAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A PRETTY WOMAN sits at her makeup table wearing nothing but her bra and panties. Through the reflection in her mirror we see a large window directly behind her.

As she applies lipstick we see Titan fly quickly by in the background. After a moment he slowly slides back in view and begins ogling the girl.

She sees him in the mirror and quickly covers herself with a robe.

Titan tries to hide his face as he zooms off.

Moments later:

Titan looks down to see an APARTMENT BUILDING IN RUIN. Emergency lights flash around it as swarms of people run around in chaos.

Titan: Man, what the hell happened down there? Wait a sec -

He stops in mid-air as he comes to the striking realization.

Titan (cont'd): THAT'S MY APARTMENT!!!

EXT. HAL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Titan lands in front of the rubble that was once his home. Reporters stand just beyond the police line.

Titan: Crap.

From the wreckage crawls a dying Pat Morita.

Titan (cont'd): PAT!

Titan goes and kneels beside Pat, holding him in his arms.

Titan (cont'd): You okay?

"pat morita": I'm dying, kid. There is just one last lesson I have for you. It is the most important of all. 72.



Titan: What's that?

"pat morita": Master Mind did this, you must avenge me.

Titan: Master Mind? Why?

"pat morita": Because he's evil. You must stop the evil Hal - stop the...

Pat's body goes limp.

The cameras begin to pop and flash around them.

Titan gently lays Pat's body down and stands respectfully over him. The reporters rush over.

Reporter 1: Tighten, Is this the work of Master Mind?

Reporter 2: How will the death of your mentor affect your resolve?

Reporter 3: Was that Pat Morita?

Titan walks up to one of the cameras.

Titan: This injustice will not go unpunished. Master Mind, if you can hear me, Tighten is coming for you.

In the background we see Plato and Da Vinci, DRESSED AS PARAMEDICS, load pat's body onto a stretcher.

PLATO ACCIDENTALLY DROPS HIS SIDE. As he bends down to pick it back up, Pat quickly slaps him, then goes back to playing dead.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - NIGHT

Master Mind and the boys prepare the fortress for Hal's revenge attack. Master Mind is as giddy as a schoolboy. 73.



Master mind: Alright, people, we don't have much time. Titan should be here any minute, so let's get the lead out.

There is a GIANT MOUNTED DEATH RAY in the middle of the hall being tinkered with by Da Vinci.

Master mind (cont'd): How's the death ray coming?

Da vinci: Nearly up to full power, sir.

Master mind: Hum. Let's turn it down a few notches. It's his first time and we don't want to get in a lucky shot, now do we?

Plato enters the room.

Master mind (cont'd): Anything on the radar yet?

Plato: Not yet, sir.

Master mind: I see. Well, he must be planning something big. Are the flame androids deployed?

Plato: All twelve.

Master Mind rubs his hands in anticipation as he sits down on his throne.

Master mind: Wonderful, wonderful. Plato, Da Vinci, take your places next to me.

They move to either side of the chair.

Master mind (cont'd): No slouching.

Da Vinci straightens up and sucks in his gut.

They remain this way for several long moments. Master Mind occasionally glances at a DIGITAL CLOCK on the wall. Still no Titan. 74.



Later:

Apparently quite some time has passed. The bold stances have degraded to fatigue.

Plato: He's certainly taking his time.

Master mind: He'll be here. That's the way it works.

Still later:

Master Mind reclines in his chair and taps his metal gauntlet impatiently on the armrest.

Plato has squatted down, resting his chin on his hand.

Master mind (cont'd): Unprofessional, that's what this is. No, it's disrespect for the craft.

Master Mind rises and begins to pace back and forth.

Master mind (cont'd): Would Uberman have kept us waiting like this? Of course not. He was a pro who knew the score. It's time we spelled out a few things for this Titan. I will not be made a fool of.

He storms out of the room.

INT. HAL'S NEW APARTMENT - DAY

Titan's sitting on the floor in a barren apartment wearing his costume top and some tighty whities. He sips his beer as he watches a basketball game on a tiny TV.

Much to his annoyance, there's a KNOCK at the door.

Titan: Oh, for crying out loud.

He gets up and opens the door. It's Master Mind.

Master mind: Do you know who I am? 75.



It takes a few moments to register, but Titan's suddenly excited.

Titan: Yeah, you're Master Mind. Yeah! You're actually the guy I want to see!

Master mind: Oh, so NOW you want to get down to it. Well, I want to get a few things off my chest first.

Master Mind walks past Titan into the apartment. He spins around, pointing at him accusingly with one of his metal fingers.

Master mind (cont'd): Of all the inconsiderate - Do you have any idea how long we waited for you? We're you even planning on coming to me and getting revenge?

Titan shuts the apartment door, and turns back toward his guest.

Titan: Well, at first I was going to. You know, because that's what I figured I was supposed to do. But then I got to thinking-

Master mind: (interrupting) -You got to thinking? There's nothing to think about. I'm the villain. I do something bad, you come and get me.

Titan: - I got to thinking...what's the point?

Master Mind throws up his hands.

Master mind: Maybe you're right. What's the point?

He suddenly notices something in the corner of his eye. He walks over to a futon in the living room. On top of it is a LARGE SACK OVERFLOWING WITH GOLD WATCHES,RINGS AND OTHER VALUABLES. 76.



Master mind (cont'd): What are these?

Titan: That's what I wanted to talk to you about.

Master mind: (baffled) Where did you get all this?

Titan: (proudly) Get this: I stole them.

Master mind: From where?

Titan: From all over. You see, once you killed Pat and ruined my other apartment building I was pretty pissed off, so I figured I'd go, find you and kick some ass. Then I thought to myself: "Okay,then what?" I mean, if we were to fight, what would I get out of it? Would I get my apartment back? Would I be able to pay the bills?

Master mind: Well, what about your mentor?

Titan: Tell you the truth? He was kind of a dick. I mean, being a hero is dandy and all, but it's volunteer work. Now you've always had the right take on all this. I mean, when you rob a bank or take over the diamond exchange you get something out of it. I mean, when you don't get caught, which, no offense, isn't very often. And that brings me to what I wanted to propose to you: Who could catch you if I'm by your side?

Perplexed by his proposal, Master Mind just stares at Titan awe-struck.

Master mind: You want to team-up? 77.



Titan: You got the brains, I got the brawn. We could even call ourselves that: `Brain' and `Brawn'. Look at this.

Titan picks up a piece of POSTER BOARD off the floor and shows it to Master Mind.

Titan (cont'd): I even designed us some new costumes.

The picture is crudely drawn with magic markers and crayons. A big headed man (Master Mind) is standing on a plate of grass in a blue costume with a picture of a brain on his chest.

Next to him, is a picture of Titan in a red costume with a black cape, but his chest is mysteriously blank.

Titan proudly points to the two figures.

Titan (cont'd): See, you'd be brain, so you got a little one on your costume, and then I'll have brawn on mine...once I figure out the best, you know, visual interpretation of it. What do you think?

Master mind: What do I think?

Master Mind shakes his head tiredly.

Master mind (cont'd): I think you're probably the biggest idiot I've ever met. I mean, I can't believe you. All your gifts, all your powers, and all you want to use them for is your own financial fulfillment. You know what? Your kind of people make me sick.

Titan puts down his drawing.

Titan: I worked hard on this.

Master mind: Oh - gee - I am so sorry! 78.



Master Mind looks to Heaven in disgust.

Master mind (cont'd): (under his breath) Of all the people to pick, it had to be this loser.

This strikes a cord with Titan.

Titan: Now, hold on. You're going a little too far.

Master mind: I wish your mother said that to your father the night of your conception, they would have saved me a whole lot of heartache.

Titan: Hey, I mean it.

Master Mind gets right in his face.

Master mind: Oh, yeah? What are you gonna do?

EXT. HAL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

We see Master Mind's body CRASH through the building and land in a DUMPSTER across the street.

A car pulls up. The driver's door opens. Da Vinci gets out and runs to help his master.

Da vinci: Master!

Master mind (o.s.): It hurts.

Da Vinci peeks into the dumpster to see Master Mind's body cushioned by a stack of trash bags.

Da vinci: What hurts?

Master mind: It!

The overly large henchmen starts to pull his master from the dumpster when they suddenly hear a voice from above. It's Titan peeking through the hole in his apartment wall. 79.



Titan: I don't need you, I don't need anybody. I have the power to do and take anything I want. And now, I'm gonna take back everything this city owes me. Beware Metro City, it's time for Titan to collect.

Titan shoots up into the air.

Titan (cont'd): Oh, and from now on - I'M GONNA FLY THE WAY I WANT TO FLY!

He takes a sitting position and flies away as if he were piloting an invisible jet.

Master Mind climbs out of the dumpster and watches Titan disappear into the distance.

Da vinci: How'd the plan go, boss?

Master mind: I just made myself redundant, old friend.

Da Vinci gives Master Mind a whiff.

Da vinci: It's not that bad.

INT. BANK - DAY

Titan, with a happy bounce in his step, enters the bank. The last time he was here he thwarted a robbery. He looks nostalgic.

A SECURITY GUARD shyly walks up to him like a kid meeting his TV idol.

Security guard: Morning, Tighten.

Titan: Morning.

Security guard: Is there something we can do for you? 80.



Titan: Oh, don't bother about me. I'm just here to make a withdrawal.

Titan walks across the lobby, drawing stares of admiration from all.

A little girl waves to him sweetly. He gives her a good- natured WINK as he heads straight for the vault.

The security guard watches him enter and come out with a SACK OF CASH.

Sure he must be misunderstanding what's going on, the security guard just stares at Titan as he passes by and out the door.

The bank manager comes over to the guard.

Bank manager: Say, did he just rob us?

Security guard: Not sure. Sort of looks it, don't it?

Bank manager: Yeah.

Security guard: Should I, you know, stop him?

Bank manager: Umm...Yeah.

As the security guard exits the bank, the manager stares out the window. His eyes suddenly grow wide with terror.

The guard's body suddenly smashes through the window, landing at the startled bank manager's feet.

Bank manager (cont'd): (looking down at the guard) He did rob us, didn't he?

CUT TO:

Television:

"A Channel 7 News Special Report." Brad Helms wipes into view. 81.



Brad helms: "Absolute power corrupts absolutely." When Lord Acton stated that, in a letter to Bishop Mandell Creighton in 1887, no one thought much about it, but today Metro City is reeling from that very prophecy. Tighten, who many thought of as our savior, has turned his back on the cause of justice.

CUT TO:

TITAN BEING EVIL - MONTAGE

EXT. DIAMOND EXCHANGE - DAY

Titan flies through the window of the building. He emerges seconds later laughing with his shirt full of booty.

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

A woman screams from the window of a BURNING BUILDING. Titan flies up to her, grabs her fur coat and zooms off again, leaving the woman behind, slightly confused.

EXT. OUTSIDE MARKET - DAY

Titan steals a little boy's lollipop and gooses his mother.

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

Dozens of people run through the streets apparently to get out of a downpour. We cut to the top of a building and see Titan ZIPPING UP HIS PANTS and laughing.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - NIGHT

Master Mind paces back and forth in front of Plato and Da Vinci.

Plato: I don't understand it. He seemed to have every characteristic we were looking for in a superhero.

Master mind: Well, there's no use crying about it now, we must take action. I'm not going to play second fiddle to that crass buffoon. We must destroy Tighten. 82.



Plato: It won't be easy. Uberman had a sense of decency and genuine love for the people. That was his weakness and was easily used against him.

Master mind: Yes, but he possesses the same flaws present in Uberman's DNA - copper. It's like Benjamin Franklin always said: "If something works don't dick with it."

EXT. BAR - DAY

It looks like a war zone passed through here. Smashed police cars and debris lay everywhere. This seems to be the only building left untouched.

INT. BAR - DAY

A very tipsy Titan is sitting at the bar, looking deep into the bottom of his beer glass for answers.

Titan: I can have anything I want. I'm like a god.

The BARTENDER just listens as he wipes down a glass with a dirty rag.

Titan: Point to any woman in this bar. I could have her in a second.

He follows the bartender's gaze to THE ONLY OTHER PERSON THERE - A passed out, MIDDLE AGED HAG OF A BARFLY.

Titan: (to Old Barfly) Hey, you wanna get with this?

Bartender: Buddy, what do you want?

Titan carefully considers this for a moment.

Titan: What do you want? That's the question, isn't it. I mean, what do you want when you can have everything? (MORE) 83. TITAN(cont'd) I suppose what I really want is to never be forgotten again. I want to do something that can never be cast aside or one-upped. I want a - what's it called? - A legacy. I want a legacy. Yeah, that's it. I like the sound that.

Bartender: I meant, what do you want to drink?

Titan: Oh.

EXT. BAR - LATER

Titan stumbles out of the bar, carrying a large sack of money.

Master mind (o.s.): Your time has come to an end, Titan!

He looks up to see Master Mind suddenly standing before him.

Titan: What?

Master mind: There can be only one master criminal in this city - and it's me.

Titan: Really?

Titan melodramatically throws up his arms.

Titan (cont'd): I guess I should leave town then, huh?

Master mind: I have a better idea - NOW!

Two floors up Da Vinci releases a rope. A COPPER CAGE, like the one that caged Uberman, drops down on top of Titan.

Titan nonchalantly surveys the cage. He walks to the bars, tries to pull them apart but can't.

Master mind (cont'd): That's copper my good man. Your one weakness. (MORE) 84. MASTER MIND(cont'd) For all your amazing gifts of brawn you are no match for my intellect.

Titan thinks for a moment. Suddenly, he starts to SPIN like a human top, DRILLING HIMSELF INTO THE STREET BELOW.

As he disappears beneath the surface, we see a shocked look on Master Mind's face until Titan suddenly explodes out from under the street in front of him.

Master Mind stares up at him, dumbfounded.

Titan makes like he's going to strike him down, but stops.

Titan: You know what? You're nothing but a bug. Not even worth my effort.

He turns his back to Master Mind and continues down the street.

Plato makes his way from the shadows to join his master. They watch Titan shrink into the distance.

Master mind: He's not as dumb as I thought.

Plato: I guess not...Funny, though.

Master mind: What's funny?

Plato: Funny Uberman didn't think of the same thing.

EXT. HIGH ABOVE METRO CITY - DAY

As Titan flies, he looks down at the rooftops of the city below.

Suddenly, something catches his attention.

Hal: That's it!

He stops, hovering in place as he looks down below.

The buildings, which make up the heart of downtown Metro, are in a PERFECT TRIANGLE with a long strip of street leading up to it. It sorta looks like a bowling lane. 85.



Hal: Hello, Legacy.

EXT. KINGPIN BOWLING - DAY

Vinnie and his goons come running out as the hear a COMMOTION.

They look up to see Titan ripping off THE GIANT BOWLING BALL from the top of the establishment.

Vinnie: Hey, that's my ball!

INT. ROXANNE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Roxanne enters the building's elevator. Just before the door closes an ELDERLY WOMAN slides in.

Elderly woman: That was a close one. Sixth floor, please.

Roxanne smiles and goes to press the button.

The elderly woman suddenly pulls out a SPRAY CAN, shooting a MYSTERIOUS-LOOKING MIST into Roxanne's face. She falls to the floor unconscious.

INT. ROXANNE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Roxanne awakens, finding herself tied to a chair in her living room.

We hear NOISE from a TV in the background as she tries to adjust her vision.

Slowly, the blurry figure before her becomes clear.

It's Master Mind. He sits on her Lazy-Boy, reading what looks to be some kind of JOURNAL.

Master mind: Wow, I always thought Uberman was your first superhero - but it looks like our little Roxanne dated a linebacker in college.

Roxanne: That's my diary.

Master mind: So it is. 86.



Roxanne: It's personal.

Master mind: Well, then I wouldn't leave it in your underwear drawer for just anyone to find.

He throws the diary over his shoulder.

Roxanne: What do you want?

Master mind: I need your help.

Roxanne: So you knock me out and tie me to a chair?

Master mind: You're not going to like what I'm about to tell you.

As she tries to shake off her headache from being knocked unconscious, Roxanne spots something on the TV.

On television:

Brad Helms is huddled behind a van.

Brad helms: It's chaos here in city square as city police -

Behind him, Titan picks up a POLICE CAR and throws it at a PADDY WAGON. Both vehicles EXPLODE on impact.

Back to scene:

Roxanne: He's really out of control.

Master mind: Tell me about it.

As if finally realizing something, Roxanne looks back at Master Mind.

Roxanne: I should have known. You have something to do with this, don't you? - With Titan turning evil. 87.



Master mind: Well, the evil thing he did by himself. My goal was to give MYSELF purpose by creating an intellectual sparring partner.

Roxanne: (confused) You're talking like you made him.

Master mind: And they call me Master Mind.

Roxanne: Let me get this straight. You missed getting your ass kicked, so you made a new guy to kick your ass. That's pathetic.

Master mind: In hindsight...

Roxanne turns back to the TV to see a group of POLICE OFFICERS open fire on Titan. The bullets just deflect off his chest.

Roxanne: And his powers, they're just like Uberman's. Why would he have his powers?

Master mind: (almost ashamed) I had some left over from something. I infused him with it.

Roxanne: YOU DID WHAT!?

Driven by rage, she struggles to tear out of her bonds. She finally relents, giving Master Mind a look fueled by pure hatred.

Master mind: Yeah, that's why I decided to tie you up.

Roxanne: You did all this because you wanted purpose?

Master mind: He seemed nice. 88.



Television:

Titan is standing on top of a destroyed police car. He waves for the camera to zoom in on him.

Titan: Closer. I want to show the people my real face.

He pulls off his mask, revealing himself as Hal Stewart to the public for the first time.

Titan (cont'd): Recognize me?

Back to scene:

Roxanne: Hal Stewart. He's the guy we thought saved that woman and kid. Turned out he was just trying to save his own ass.

Master mind: Yeah, good to know - NOW!

Television:

Titan throws the mask over this shoulder and hops off the car.

Titan: That's right, I'm really Hal Stewart. Former hero and bowling teacher at Kingpin's Bowling.

Back to scene:

Roxanne turns to Master Mind, condescending him with her eyes.

Roxanne: You picked a bowler to give super powers to?

Master mind: It's a modest profession!

Television: 89.



Titan: With my new found power, I've recently started to wonder what sort of legacy I should leave. Should I be a hero? I tried that once before - even saved a lady and her baby from being squashed. I was treated like a god until everyone started to shit on me - Okay, so what if I didn't "purposely" save them!

He walks over and puts his hand on a large circular concrete shape just off camera.

Titan: Well, I'm going to make something that can't be taken away from me. I'm going to create a permanent monument to my greatness. One that won't be so easily forgotten or erased.

The camera pulls back revealing THE GIANT CONCRETE BOWLING BALL from Kingpin's.

Titan: I intend to create a new category in the Guinness Book of World's Records by rolling the biggest strike in the history of bowling.

He grabs the camera and points it to the DOWNTOWN BUILDINGS. We realize they are PERFECTLY ALIGNED IN BOWLING PIN FORMATION.

Titan: My thanks to the city planning commission. This wouldn't have been possible without them.

Titan grabs the camera so it's pointing back at him again.

Titan: Tell your friends and family to tune in right here to this station at noon tomorrow.

Back to scene:

Roxanne: My god, he's nuts. That'll destroy the whole business triangle. 90.



Master Mind seems to be contemplating something - something bad.

Roxanne: What?

Master mind: My lair is in the direct path of the ball.

Roxanne: Oh, real nice. Wouldn't want anything to happen to your hideout, would we?

Master mind: You don't understand. I have certain equipment that's - that's highly unstable.

Roxanne: What do you mean?

Master mind: I sort of have a hydrogen reactor, okay?

Roxanne: A HYDROGEN reactor?

Master mind: It's experimental - only one in the world...Well, how do you think I power all my inventions? Someone like me can't pay for electricity. The bills would be outrageous.

Roxanne: A REACTOR?

Master mind: It creates 100 times the output of a nuclear one...If destroyed it could...

Roxanne: - Vaporize the entire city!

Master mind: (proudly) Pshaw...the whole eastern seaboard, actually. That little baby is amazing. I'm quite proud of it. (MORE) 91. MASTER MIND(cont'd) (off her deadpan reaction) I mean...we'd better find a way to stop him.

Master Mind thinks a moment.

Master mind: Did Uberman have a hideout?

Roxanne: What?

Master mind: A cave, a solitary fortress of some kind. C'mon, all heros have a place to hang their capes up in. Roxanne, it may be our only chance to find something, a clue, anything that could give us a fighting chance.

Roxanne: It's under his house.

Master mind: Whose house?

Roxanne can hardly believe what she's telling him.

Roxanne: Wayne Scott's.

Master Mind shoots up out of his chair.

Master mind: Wayne Scott? Uberman was Wayne Scott!? Wayne Scott, the wealthy philanthropist? But he disappeared -

Roxanne: (interrupting) He disappeared just over two months ago when you killed him. Not only did you rid the world of a hero, you killed a kind, noble, generous man.

Perhaps ashamed, the super villain hangs his head.

Master Mind walks behind Roxanne and undoes her bonds.

Rubbing her wrists, she watches him as he walks over to the door. 92.



Roxanne (cont'd): Looks like you got what you always wanted. Uberman is out of the picture and Metro City is doomed.

He grabs the door knob and stops, considering her words.

Master mind: "Metro City doomed." You know, I never thought I'd say something like this, but here it goes -

He slowly turns to her, CUE HEROIC MUSIC.

Master mind (cont'd): Not if I have anything to say about it.

EXT. WAYNE SCOTT'S MANSION - NIGHT

Master Mind stands before the huge, Gothic structure in awe.

Master mind: Such a dark place for one such as you. I wonder, underneath your noble deeds, what inner demons drove you to your endless crusade for justice?

He walks to the front entrance. The double doors have been sealed shut with boards and nails. Master Mind begins to tear them off with his metal hand.

INT. WAYNE SCOTT'S MANSION - NIGHT

The doors opens. A beam of moonlight immediately pierces the darkness, forming an illuminated path into the heart of the manor.

Master mind enters.:

Covered in dust and cobwebs, the hall looks like a gigantic crypt.

Master mind: Good lord, man. You've only been dead for two months.

Master Mind walks, coming to a gigantic painted PORTRAIT OF WAYNE SCOTT. He stops to reverently admire the image of his fallen foe. 93.



Master mind (cont'd): A disguise so simple, it's ingenious. No wonder I never caught on.

Besides the Armani suit, there's nothing to hide the fact that this is the same person as Uberman. In the picture, he's even standing in the same cheesy, heroic pose with his fists on his hips.

Master mind (cont'd): Two lives, yet in both you were an ideal. Perhaps it was you who was victorious in the end, old friend.

A BONGING sound suddenly bellows through the dark halls.

Master Mind comes to a grandfather clock standing next to a gigantic BOOKCASE.

On the twelfth bong it falls silent.

Master Mind begins to slide it across the floor until he hears a loud CLICK.

The bookcase slides into the wall, REVEALING A HIDDEN PASSAGE.

Master mind (cont'd): I'll miss how predictable you were.

The passage way leads Master Mind to a WORKING ESCALATOR.

Master Mind gets off the escalator to see a long hallway with stone walls.

He begins to hear strange SOUNDS, almost like MUFFLED SCREAMS, coming from a doorway at the end of the hallway.

Master Mind starts walking towards it. As he steps closer, he begins to notice a light cracking through the bottom of the door.

Master mind (cont'd): Hello? Anyone here...besides..all the BIG MEN who are with me now?

Nothing.:

Master mind (cont'd): (to himself) What's the worst you're gonna find? (MORE) 94. MASTER MIND(cont'd) The man was a boy scout, not a serial killer.

He opens the door to his immediate amazement.

It's some kind of screening room. A PROJECTOR shoots an image onto A DIRTY WHITE SCREEN hanging on the wall. BEER CANS litter the floor; a table in front of a ripped-up couch is covered in discarded snack goods; and a Kiss Pinball machine stands in the far corner next to a CLOSED DOOR.

Master Mind turns his attention to the action on the screen.

Screen:

A woman dressed in a leather DOMINATRIX OUTFIT is whipping an overweight man lying on a swing-like device with his butt sticking out.

Dominatrix in film: YOU ARE A WORM!

She whips him three times. The man CRIES out in pain.

FAT MAN IN FILM PINEAPPLE!!! PINEAPPLE!!!

Master Mind's eyes are transfixed on the disturbing imagery.

The door by the pinball machine suddenly swings open.

WAYNE SCOTT, dressed in raggedy sweats, steps into the room carrying a CAN OF BEER and a bowl of JIFFY-POP.

Master Mind cannot believe his horrified eyes.

Master mind: Ahhhhhh!

Wayne Scott is just as startled.

Wayne scott: Jesus!

He drop his drink and snack to the floor.

The two men stare at each other as they struggle to regain their normal breathing patterns.

Wayne Scott walks over to the couch, brushes off a thick layer of chip crumbs, and sits down.

Wayne scott (cont'd): What the hell are you doing here? 95.



Master mind: I might just ask you the same question. I had thought I incinerated you.

Wayne scott: You scared the bejesus out of me. How'd you figure out I was still alive? Wait, how do you know my identity!?

Master mind: Roxanne told me. As for your ruse, I forgot to line the bottom of the copper cage - Somebody pointed that out to me recently. Figured if they could do it, so could you. But one thing I couldn't figure out -

Wayne scott: The skeleton? Something I "borrowed" from a medical school a few months before.

Master mind: A few months? How long had you been planning this?

Wayne scott: I always planned to retire - eventually. I mean, come on, you can't do this sort of thing in your fifties. You'd just look ridiculous.

The pieces of the puzzle appear to be coming together in Master Mind's head.

Master mind: I see it all so clearly now.

INT. MASTER MIND'S HYDROFOIL - FLASHBACK

Master Mind and his minions cover their eyes as the observatory explodes.

MASTER MIND (CONT'D - V.O.) You must have done it just seconds before the observatory exploded. 96.



INT. OBSERVATORY - FLASHBACK

Similar to what Titan did, Uberman bores out from under the cage.

MASTER MIND (CONT'D - V.O.) You bore out from under the cage. Then, using your Uber-Speed, -

EXT. OBSERVATORY - FLASHBACK

Running in a blur-like haze, Uberman screeches to a halt in front of some bushes.

MASTER MIND (CONT'D - V.O.) - you made your way to safety, where you had the skeleton safely hidden away somewhere.

EXT OBSERVATORY - SKY - DAY

Uberman soars high above the clouds. He looks down at the observatory, which is a mere speck in the distance.

MASTER MIND (CONT'D - V.O) (CONT'D) Then you must have flown to a safe distance and waited for the explosion, then...

Just as the observatory explodes Uberman aims and throws the SKELETON like a javelin.

It soars through the air like a missile, tearing through the flames of the explosion, and crashing right into the windshield of Master Mind's hydrofoil.

End of flashback:

Wayne stares at Master Mind, clearly impressed.

Wayne: Man, you ARE smart.

Master mind: But why fake your death? Why go through all of it? You could have just quit.

Wayne scott: But the responsibility would still be there. (MORE) 97. WAYNE SCOTT(cont'd) A cop can retire and stop handing out speeding tickets - but people expect more from superheroes. I tell you, a volcano couldn't erupt in Zimbabwe without everyone expecting me to do something about it. I figured, out of sight, out of mind.

Master mind: And Wayne Scott? Why did he have to disappear?

Wayne scott: Both of my lives have so much baggage. It's time for new baggage, you know?

Master Mind's is absolutely flabbergasted.

Master mind: I just can't believe it. This whole time you've been in hiding while a force of great evil is tearing your city apart?

Wayne rises to his feet, waving his hands for Master Mind to say no more.

Wayne scott: I don't want to hear about it. That's why I don't have a television in here to remind me of all the things I SHOULD be doing. Hell, I could get a wife to do that.

Master mind: There's a demented supervillain out there about to destroy our - I mean, your city.

Wayne shrugs indifferently.:

Master mind: You're really going to do nothing?

Wayne scott: Good and evil have a way of balancing themselves out. If this guy is as bad as you say, somebody will rise up to fight him. It's just the order of things. You found me, didn't you? 98.



Wayne puts a condescending hand on Master Mind's shoulder.

Wayne scott (cont'd): I know it's hard, but you'll find someone else someday.

He then starts walking to the door.

Master mind: You're the only one who can stop him.

Wayne turns around.:

Wayne scott: Couldn't if I wanted to. Gotta a plane to catch.

Master mind: A plane?

Wayne scott: Going to Barbados for a little change in climate. Now, if you'll excuse me, I got to go pack.

He reads the still defeated look on Master Mind's face.

Wayne scott (cont'd): You were a good foe. I'm sorry if I've let you down. If it makes a difference, you were the best foe a hero could ask for.

Master mind: Not smart enough to come up with a full-proof trap.

Wayne scott: Well, you did almost have me when you figured out my weakness was copper. Now that made me sweat a little. Took me way too long to drill out from under that cage.

Master mind: I got lucky.

Wayne scott: Anyway, it's a good thing for my sake that I could always count on you for an out. 99.



Master mind: (suddenly confused) What do you mean?

Wayne scott: C'mon, we always threw each other a couple of bones. You would always leave me an out in one of your `full-proof' traps, and I'd never had you incarcerated at a penitentiary that you couldn't eventually escape from. It kept our little game going.

Master Mind seems deflated.

Master mind: Game? - Was that all this ever was to you? You know, I was trying my best every time I fought you. Those `outs' as you call them were unintentional.

Wayne scott: Oh.

Master mind: I guess I was never really a match for you, was I?

Wayne shrugs.:

Master mind (cont'd): (thoughtfully) Then how can I expect to be one for Titan?

A beaten man, Master Mind heads for the door, but stops and turns around.

Master mind (cont'd): What about Roxanne?

Wayne unleashes an exhausted sigh.

Wayne scott: I think we both got what we wanted out of our relationship. She got a career out of me, and I got plenty of other things out of her. But I'm ready to move on to greener pastures. 100.



Master Mind's steel hand clinches into a fist at his side. Wayne's oblivious to this.

Master mind: I guess I wasn't the villain I thought I was, and you...you weren't the hero I thought you were.

He turns to make his exit when he suddenly sees ROXANNE STANDING IN THE DOOR FRAME.

Wayne is almost at a loss for words.

Wayne scott: Roxanne! How long have you been...

Roxanne: Long enough.

Roxanne looks at Master Mind.

Roxanne (cont'd): Don't you have something else you can go do?

Master Mind leaves Roxanne and Wayne facing each other in silence.

EXT. ANOTHER BAR - DAY

Titan emerges with Brad and Frank. He's holding a BEER CAN and a bag of PORK RINDS.

Titan: Alright, I want this whole thing to look ESPN professional, understand?

A distant MECHANIZED RUMBLE can be heard. The noise rises, signaling the approach of something powerful.

Titan and his crew walk out to the center of the plaza as the sound becomes almost deafening.

A tank track:

as it moves over the street. We PULL BACK to see a whole line of TANKS rolling along the street.

Plaza:

From the five streets branching off the plaza, a dozen tanks roll toward Titan. 101.



Titan turns to Brad and Frank.

Titan (cont'd): You guys are about to get some good footage. I might need a little room, though.

Brad and Frank look at each other and run to take cover behind a nearby building.

Meanwhile, Titan nonchalantly sips from his beer as the tanks begin to surround them.

FEEDBACK belts out of one of the tank's loudspeaker's, causing Titan to do a mock wince.

Tank loudspeaker: Titan, we have orders from the city of Metro to take you into custody. If you do not give your self up willingly, we will be forced to open fire.

There's a long pause as no one says anything.

Tank loudspeaker: What is your answer?

Titan takes a sip of his beverage and UNLEASHES A GIGANTIC BURP - The shockwave of which sends several of the tanks flying into a nearby building.

Two of the remaining tanks close in on the villain. Both have him dead to rights at point-blank range with their massive guns.

Titan sets down his beer, then calmly plugs a fist into each barrel.

They fire.:

The FORCE OF THE BLAST SENDS THEM BOTH FLYING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS where they CRASH into nearby buildings.

Titan bends down and pick his beet back up.

Titan: (to beer) Miss me?

Titan is suddenly bombarded by a massive barrage of machine- gun fire. The force sends him flying into the windshield of a nearby car. 102.



He looks up to see an APACHE ASSAULT COPTER. It's nose- mounted GATLING-GUN is turning toward him.

Titan gets up to his feet and looks down at his beer can. The bottom of it was blown apart in the blast.

Titan (cont'd): Didn't mean to get you involved in all of this.

He stared daggers up at the helicopter pilot just as the gun gets a bead on him.

Titan (cont'd): Hey, man! You killed my suds!

Titan throws the can up and slaps it with the palm of his hand.

It flies with so much force it knocks the helicopter blade clean off. The rest of the Apache crashes to the street like a car dropped off a building.

Titan (cont'd): That's one was for you, beer.

Titan salutes the wreckage and walks away to find Brad and Frank still hiding behind the building.

Titan: Guys, please tell me you got that last bit.

Brad helms: Huh?

Titan: You're kidding me. I give you my sexiest moves and you mean to tell me it was for nothing?

Brad helms: We were afraid something might hit us.

Titan: Looks like I've given the story of the century to the wrong man.

He thinks about this for a moment, then it hits him. 103.



Titan: Wait. What about that other reporter. Blond. Not so lumpy on the topper half, but killer legs.

Brad helms: Roxanne. You want Roxanne. She's a much better reporter than I am. You want her.

Titan: Where can I find her.

Frank: We're actually not supposed to give out that sort of information.

Brad helms: 1314 Mockingbird Lane. I believe she lives in a penthouse.

Titan: You've been very helpful.

He tosses Brad over his shoulder like a discarded ice cream cone.

In the faint distance we see him splash down in the middle of the Metro City river.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - DAY

Master Mind, pacing anxiously as Plato and Da Vinci pack boxes. Obviously Master Mind is going on the lamb.

Master mind: Hurry, we must be on our way as soon as possible.

Da vinci: Master, why must we flee?

Master mind: I told you, Titan is too powerful. If he's set on destroying us, there's precious little we could do about it.

Da vinci: Where are we going? 104.



Master mind: To another city, someplace with a shitload of superheroes to fight. We'll start over, we'll go back to doing what we do best.

Plato: With our tails between our legs?

The old Master Mind would never have let this comment slip by, but as we have seen, he's not the same man.

Master mind: Plato, do you have a better plan?!

Master Mind's cell phone rings. He turns in shame from his men and answers it.

Master mind (cont'd): Hello...Roxanne?

INT. ROXANNE'S APARTMENT

Roxanne paces back and forth on the phone.

Roxanne: What are you going to do about Tighten?

INTERCUT between Master Mind and Roxanne on phone.

Master mind: Right now I'm packing, later I'll have a snack on the train.

Roxanne: You're running away?

Master mind: In a word - yes.

Roxanne: You created this monster...

Master mind: I didn't create this - the god's of irony did and I am eating the crow I so richly deserve.

Roxanne: There's no time for self pity. 105.



Master mind: I'll make the time.

Roxanne can't believe what she's hearing.

Master mind (cont'd): You can leave with us. You'll be safe.

Roxanne: I'm not going anywhere.

Master mind: Will you listen to me, no one can stop him.

Roxanne: You have to try. The city needs your help.

Master mind: I'm afraid you have an inflated opinion of me.

Roxanne: What the hell's happened to you? The Master Mind I knew would never have run from a fight even though he knew deep in his heart that he didn't have a chance in hell of winning it. It was your best quality. You need to be that man right now...I...

Master mind: What?

Roxanne: (heart felt) I believe in you.

Master Mind is taken aback, in a good way. But he catches himself before the words swell his heart.

Master mind: Sweet words, but that man is dead. Please, Roxanne, just come with me.

Roxanne: No...I guess you are a coward after all.

Suddenly, there's a loud crash. 106.



Roxanne looks up to see a huge hunk of her ceiling has been completely ripped off.

Titan is flying above, holding the debris as casually as if it were a paper plate at a barbecue.

He looks down at her and smiles.

Titan: Man, have I got a story for you.

Master Mind can hears Titan's familiar laugh from his side of the line.

Master mind: Roxanne? Roxanne?

EXT. KINGPIN BOWLING - DAY

Titan is standing in front of the bowling alley, trying to decide on an appropriate pose for the occasion.

Titan: What pose would be best? The corny folded arms thing?

He demonstrates, arching his chin proudly in the air.

Titan: Or maybe on the hips, like this.

It's the classic Superman pose, only not as masculine.

Titan: No, makes me look like a flamer pirate.

As Titan starts to fix his hair in the window, Frank pretends to fix the lens on his camera as he speaks to Roxanne.

Frank: (whispering) Shouldn't we be making a run for it right about now?

Roxanne: (whispering) The guy can outrun bullets. I don't think either one of us is in that kind of shape.

Titan: She's right, Frank. 107.



Frank looks up, stunned that Titan could have possibly heard him.

Titan: Also got super hearing. I promise not to keep the both of you long, but you'll thank me when this is all over.

Frank and Roxanne exchange helpless expressions.

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY   - DAY

Master Mind reverently stares up at the painted portrait of his father.

Master mind: Dad, it's me... (he looks around to make sure no one can hear) ...Bubsy. I know we haven't talked in a while, and I'm sorry. It's been a little crazy trying to live up to a legacy.

The painting's menacing stare seems to reach into his very soul.

Master mind: Anyway...You raised me to be the worst that I could possibly be. And I've tried to live up to that as best as I could - even dropping out of dentistry school like you wanted me to. But I'm about to do something now that would really piss you off. I'm going to go against everything you ever taught me. I hope...I hope that maybe you'll look down at what I'm about to do as not so much a good deed, but more like the outright defiance of a hateful and ungrateful, son. If you could do that, then maybe - in your own little way - you could - for probably the first time - find a reason to be proud of me.

He looks back up at the picture. Is it our imagination, or does the painting's stare suddenly seem even angrier? 108.



Master mind: Well...either way, you're probably going to see me real soon. (calling over his shoulder) Men?

Plato and Da Vinci suddenly stop what they're doing and look up at him.

PLATO AND DA VINCI Yes Sir?

Master mind: Stop packing. Our work is not finished here.

PLATO AND DA VINCI YES SIR!

Television:

A news report shows an aerial shot of Titan setting the giant ball down in the middle of a vacant city street.

Reporter: We interrupt your regular afternoon programming to show you live footage of a potential dangerous situation in downtown Metro. The former hero knows as Titan is placing what appears to be a giant ball...

INT. ABANDONED METRO CITY LIBRARY     - CONTINUOUS

Da Vinci stops in front of a television set, seeing the news report in progress.

Reporter: Hold on...It appears our own Roxanne Ritchi is somehow at the scene. We now go to her with a live report.

Da vinci: Sir, I think you should see this!

CUT TO:
109.:



EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

Roxanne is standing in front of a camera with a mike in her hand.

Roxanne: I'm here with the cause of the destruction in Metro City. He has kidnapped me and a cameraman to chronicle what he refers to as the creation of a monument to his invincibility and overall "Asskickiness." He will use this giant concrete bowling ball to play the largest game of bowling ever using the buildings of downtown Metro City as his pins.

Titan suddenly steps into the shot.

Titan: And I'm going for the biggest strike ever.

He leans into the camera.

Titan: And you, Metro City, have a ringside seat as I cement my name in the anal of history.

Roxanne: Annals.

Titan: What?

Roxanne: Nevermind.

EXT. CITY STREET - MOMENTS LATER

Titan holds up the massive bowling ball, lining up his shot.

Titan: (in quiet professional bowler announcer voice) Like Tiger before him, a young savior has come to raise a sport from the ashes. Rookie Hal Stewart, a young man with a dream, realizing that dream here today, folks. (MORE) 110. TITAN(cont'd) One might click there heels and say "There's no place like home" upon finding themselves in such a fantasy. Well, Hal looks very much at home right were he is - with a ball in hand and glory in his sights.

INT. METRO CITY LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

In the bowels of Master Mind's hideout, the HYDROGEN REACTOR glows and HUMS MENACINGLY.

Back to scene:

Roxanne just stand helpless as Frank films away.

Roxanne: Hal, I know everyone treated you like shit, but you don't have to do this.

Titan: You're right. I don't HAVE to do anything. Isn't that cool?

Titan lines up his shot.

Titan: Here's one for the record books!

Titan flies a few feet and rolls the ball down the main street.

Roxanne:

Her face is utter horror as she watches the inevitable destruction of Metro City.

As the ball rolls - it demolishes everything in it's wake; cars, street lamps - windows shatter as the giant concrete sphere brushes along side buildings.

Titan:

He smiles in anticipation and uses "body English" to direct the ball.

GIANT BOWLING BALL POV

It's nearly halfway to its target.

Roxanne: 111.



She closes her eyes.

Titan's smile fades. He looks around as if he hears something we don't.

About two hundred feet in front of the first building a GIANT SPIDER WEB flies across the path of the ball, creating a defensive barrier. An enormous letter "M" is etched in the web's center.

Titan (cont'd): What the...?

The ball breaks through the web, but it's speed is greatly reduced.

Frank: Look, what's that flying in the air?

We suddenly see MASTER MIND FLYING OVER THE ROLLING BALL IN A JET PACK.

He quickly pulls out his goo gun and starts laying down a path of sticky plasm to stop the destructive sphere's path.

Master mind: C'mon, slow down

Master Mind looks down to see the meter of the gun close to empty.

Master mind: C'mon.

The ball slows drastically then starts rolling to the side. It heads off an embankment and rolls harmlessly into a CANAL.

Master mind: Gutterball!

Titan:

He's furious to say the least.

Titan: YOU!

Master Mind gives him a mocking grin.

Master mind: Bowling? What other trailer park sports can you play? 112.



Titan: You are becoming a real pain in my ass. I should have done this a long time ago.

Titan lunges at his tormentor. Master Mind hits the BOOSTER on his jet pack and heads back toward the other side of the city with Titan in hot pursuit.

MASTER   MIND (CONT'D) (into walkie   talkie) Plato, Da Vinci.   Secure Roxanne, he's falling for   it.

Elsewhere:

A flustered Titan lands. He begins searching the city streets, but Master Mind is nowhere in sight.

He turns upon hearing an EEKING sound to his left.

Sitting on the ground is a CHIMPANZEE wearing a strange collar. It smiles at him.

Titan: What the hell?

From behind, Titan is immediately set upon by five more RADIO CONTROLLED APES.

Titan (cont'd): GODAMNIT!

The critters bite hop and hit Titan. As soon as he throws one off two more jump him.

Titan breaks free and with his mighty breath blows them across the street into a fruit stand. With Titan out of their sight they begin to attack the fruit.

Master mind:

He's a block away frantically hitting his remote.

Master mind: Shit! Stupid monkeys and their fruit.

Titan flies away from the mad monkeys and lands to find Master Mind sitting on the ground wrapped in a long cape with only his head sticking out. 113.



Titan (cont'd): No more games.

Titan FIRES HIS LASER VISION AT MASTER MIND's CHEST.

Master Mind pulls the cloak away to reveal a FIRE HYDRANT. Titan's EYE LASERS burn through the hydrant releasing a high pressure stream of water.

Master Mind uses the last remote which dumps two tons of CEMENT mix into the truck.

The crowd, police and news crews move in closer when Titan doesn't emerge.

Master Mind drops his last remote and walks toward the truck cautiously.

Master mind: Could it really be that easy--

- BOOM - The back of the truck explodes, throwing dust and concrete everywhere. When the dust clears we see and enraged Titan.

Master mind (cont'd): Didn't think so.

As the villain walks toward him, he pulls back his fist to give Master Mind the killing blow.

Titan: If you don't mind, I'm going to punch trough your face now.

Preparing himself for the end, Master Mind shuts his eyes as a SUDDEN GUST OF WIND BEGINS TO PICK UP.

AS Titan goes to strike, a BLURRY FIGURE RUNS IN AND SNATCHES MASTER MIND OUT OF THE AWAY.

Stunned, Master Mind begins to feel around his body as if to make sure everything's still in place.

Master mind: I'm alive.

He turns to see UBERMAN standing next to him.

Master mind: Uberman? 114.



The terrified bystanders start to notice the figure standing next to Master Mind.

Bystander 1: It's Uberman!

Bystander 2: Uberman's alive!

Bystander 3: We're saved!

As the CROWD CHEERS, A confused Master Mind turns to Metro City's newly resurrected champion.

Master mind: I thought.

Uberman: So did I.

He puts a hand on Master Mind's shoulder.

Uberman: Thank you, old enemy.

Master mind: For what?

Uberman: Showing me the error of my ways, Showing me I'm meant to be this city's savior, showing me that, while we can try, there is no running away from our true destiny.

With that, UBERMAN IS STRICKEN BY A LASER BLAST, INSTANTLY TURNING HIM INTO A CHARRED HUMAN SKELETON.

Master Mind turns to see Titan smiling with his STILL SMOKING EYES.

Titan: Oh...Did I interrupt something?

Master Mind turns to run, but, suddenly Titan is before him.

Titan: Where you going, buddy?

Titan grabs Master Mind by the collar and throws him across the street into a parked car. 115.



Titan (cont'd): Welcome to Paintown. Population: you.

Master Mind manages to stand on shaky legs. He seems in a daze, unable to move.

Titan flies up in the air.

Titan (cont'd): Time to finish this.

With his fist front and center, Titan speeds toward Master Mind. He's like a human torpedo, coming in for the killing blow.

Master Mind comes to his senses and puts up his hands.

Master mind: WAIT!!!

Titan screeches to a halt and stops just in front of him like an old Warner Bros cartoon.

Titan: What?

Master mind: Quick joke - What's the capital of Thailand?

Titan: Huh - I don't know.

Master mind: It's bang cock!

In a sudden surge of strength, MASTER MIND PUNCHES TITAN IN THE GROIN.

The once mighty man instantly drops to his knees, searching, with tears in his eyes, for the proper word to express the pain suddenly surging through his member.

Titan (cont'd): Ow.

Baffled, he looks up at Master Mind's hand and sees his gauntlet is now made ENTIRELY OUT OF COPPER.

Master mind: So, I guess pennies are good for something. 116.



He punches Titan in the face, knocking him out cold.

Master Mind looks down on Titan with more than a little pride. Suddenly he hears something behind him. He spins to see the crowd making a strange noise - APPLAUSE.

Roxanne comes up to him.

The crowd starts to go wild and cheers for Master Mind. He's not sure what to make of it.

Roxanne: Pretty strange, huh?

Master mind: They're cheering for me.

Roxanne: You saved them. You saved everybody. How's it feel?

Master Mind looks at the smiles all around him. He begins to well up a little.

Master mind: It's a...it's nice, you know? I usually don't get a lot of feedback. (whispering) But I also kind of caused all this. What happens when they find that out I was the cause of some of this?

Roxanne looks at the cheering crowd, then back at Master Mind.

Roxanne: What they don't know won't hurt them.

Master mind: I guess that is all in the past.

Roxanne: You're the hero.

Master mind: I don't think I'd go that far...I mean I just...er...

Roxanne: Master Mind? 117.



Master mind: Yes?

Roxanne: Stop talking.

She kisses him.:

The crowd erupts in a cheer.

Television:

The channel 7 he channel 7 logo zooms in followed by the title "Eye on Metro City."

A picture of Master Mind smiling appears on the screen behind her.

Samantha summers: Who's bad? Well, not Master Mind. It seems the former villain has done a career 180 after defeating Tighten and saving Metro City from certain enslavement. And here he is getting a full pardon by Metro City's Mayor, Steve Dent.

Cut to ceremony on capital steps. The MAYOR is shaking Master Mind's metal gauntlet when it suddenly STARTS TO CRUSH HIS HAND.

Mayor: Ahhh!

Secret service men quickly start to draw their weapons and take aim at Master Mind.

Realizing what's happening, he quickly lets the mayor's hand go and puts his arms in the air.

Master mind: Sorry - Metal hand. Force of habit.

He elbows the mayor.

Master mind (cont'd): We're okay, right?

Wincing, the mayor signals the men to put their guns down.

WE CUT to video of Titan behind bars in a regular prison. 118.



Brad helms: And what about Tighten? Is there a prison in existence that can hold this super powered menace? Well, the answer we found is no.

A man in a white lab coat stands in front of Titan's cell just out of reach.

Prison scientist: Of course normally he could break out of there anytime, but as you can see we've taken some special precautions.

The news camera pans over see Titan in his cell wearing a copper JOCK STRAP with electrical cables hooked to it.

Back to Samantha at the desk.

Brad helms: What is a Hero? It seems never has that question needed to be asked more than it does tonight. We go to our very own Roxanne Ritchi, making her triumphant return to our news desk for the answer.

Brad turns. The camera pans over to Roxanne who we now see has been sitting beside him.

Roxanne: What is a hero? Well, there are many different kinds. There are those who hear a call, like the policeman or doctor, then there's the kind the public creates in their search for meaning and hope. Then, there are those who have the courage to change.

DARK ALLEY - NIGHT

A woman is being chased by two large thugs. They're gaining on her.

She comes to a brick wall - a dead end.

The thugs laugh.:

Thug #1: Hey, gimme that purse? 119.



Master mind (o.s): I don't think it would go with your outfit.

The thugs turn around to see Master Mind, standing with his arms folded across his chest.

Thug #2: It's Master Mind!

Thug #1 draws a knife.

Thug #1: So? It's not like he has any superpowers.

Thug #1 puts his fingers to his mouth and whistles.

Suddenly two more Thugs appear behind Master Mind.

Master mind: I'm gonna give you a chance to surrender.

Thug #1: Four against one. For a Master Mind, you're really bad at math.

Master Mind throws a hand signal up in the air.

Suddenly a giant robotic foot crashes down on the two men behind him.

Thug #1 and Thug #2 drop their knives and raise their hands in the air.

Master Mind looks up and waves.

Master mind: Way to take out those two goons, guys!

We see Da Vinci and Plato at the wheel of a gigantic robot.

Da vinci: What two goons?

The giant robot lifts its foot to check the bottom of it's sole. It KNOCKS OVER WATER TOWER in the process.

The woman looks at Master Mind, horrified. 120.



Master mind: (apologetically) Sorry, we're new at this.



The end:


