




Thunderbirds:




Written by:



Peter Hewitt, William Osborne & Michael McCullers






Animated scenes of the Thunderbirds on various rescues begin to play as some of the cast and crew names show up.


Narrator: From a secret island in the South Pacific, the courageous Tracy family run an organization called International Rescue. When disaster strikes, anywhere in the world, they are always first on the scene. They go by the name they gave their incredible machines, the Thunderbirds.

(Counts down numbers and shows corresponding Thunderbirds) Five, four, three, two, one. Thunderbirds are go!


Cuts to live action, Alan Tracy is looking out a school window.



But in this family of heroes, there is one son left behind.




Teacher: So, gentlemen, we all know that A2 plus B2 equals... C2, that's right. But what happens when we bring in Leonardo Da Vinci's E, F and... (Teacher notices Alan looking out window and not paying attention to the lesson) Mr. Tracy!


Fermat: Alan. Alan!


Alan's head jerks back from the window and to the teacher who is now standing in front of him.


Teacher: How kind of you to come back from outer space, Alan. I trust re-entry wasn't too rough?

(Chuckles sarcastically and continues sounding even more annoyed) Here on Earth we've been discussing the Pythagorean theorem. Did any of that happen to sink in?


Alan tracy: I was just...


Teacher: Apparently not (she picks up his notebook which he has been doodling in) "Thunderbirds are go."

Well, I hope you aren't going anywhere special over spring break, Alan. Because I expect a 10,000 word paper on my desk the day you get back. That should keep you busy.


Bells rings dismissing the students and Alan and Fermat walk out to their lockers.


Alan: you busy. Yeah, well you can take your 10,000 words and stick them right up your..."


Fermat: Alan!


(mocking the teacher) "That should keep Both boys turn around to see the headmaster approaching them while walking by with the teacher from before


Alan: Headmaster.


Headmaster: Mr. Tracy!


Alan: Miss Garrett.

Fermat: You gotta be more careful Alan.

Alan: Why can't I tell 'em I'm a Thunderbird Fermat?


Fermat: Because technically you're not a Thunderbirds yet. And if your identity was discovered, it would a d-d-di- it could be very bad.


Alan: I know, I know.


Excited kid: It's the Thunderbirds. They're gonna be on TV. Let's go! They're gonna be on TV.


Alan: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Where are they?


Excited kid: In Russia, at an oil rig fire.


Alan: Great! I'm stuck at school and my brothers are on another cool mission.


Fermat: Wanna watch?


Alan: Yeah!


Boys go into a crowded room with a TV on the news channel


Lisa lowe: We are told this super-rig is now in danger of total collapse.

And there is real concern for the lives of six men who remain trapped on board.

An emergency call went out to the Thunderbirds just a few minutes ago. They should be here any moment now.

(pauses and points at the sky while exclaiming excitedly) And here they are!


The boys watching the TV begin to cheer

Scott tracy: Thunderbird 2 this is Thunderbird 1. I have visual, south

column, they're trapped on an inspection platform.


Jeff tracy: FAB. We'll take it from here.


Mullion: Come on! Come on!


Jeff: Scott, get out. That tower's coming down.


Scott: Got it.


A blast of fire hits Thunderbird 1 and sends it a little farther away from the accident zone.


Jeff: Thunderbird 1 any damage?


Scott: Negative, Dad.

Alan: Come on, come on! Swing around. You can't get close enough, taking that approach angle.


Jeff: This approach angle's no good. Gonna have to swing her around.


Scott: Watch the wind shear Thunderbird 2.



Jeff: Scotty, I was watching for wind shear when you were still wearing diapers.



Alan: Come on, Dad.


A blast of fire comes toward Thunderbird 2


Jeff: Whoa! Hold on!


Scott: Who needs the diapers now, Dad?


Fermat: What do they do now?


Alan: Probably drop the rescue platform from Thunderbird 2.


Virgil tracy: Open 'em up. Here we go. Rescue platform's on its way.


Jeff: Virgil, how's it going?


Virgil: It's looking good, Dad.


Crew member: Come on! Jump!


Virgil: Okay, I've got a visual. Hold it there. Targets locked. Firing rescue lines.

(Directed toward the crew members who he just fired the rescue lines toward) Come on, guys, hook 'em up. We gotta get

you out of here.


Crew member: READY


Another crew member: HOIST AWAY!


Jeff: Alright, let's haul them out.


Fermat: Commencing reverse thrust.


Jeff: Okay, let's bring 'em home.


Crew member: Look out! (a couple of crew members bump into each other as they are hoisted up)


Alan: Man they gotta get 'em out fast. That rig's gonna blow.


Crew member: Hang on!

Boys watching the TV gasp as the crew goes down back toward the water a little bit

Jeff: Whoa sorry, boys. Hold on tight. Here we go.


Alan: Come on, Virgil.


Virgil: Hold on guys


Jeff: How you doing, son?


Virgil: Never better


Jeff: Thunderbird 1, commence knockdown procedure.



Scott: FAB, Thunderbird 2. (after pressing a bunch of buttons on his control panel) Lining up target.

Fire!:


Jeff: Bull's-eye! Outstanding shot. All right boys, let's take these babies home.



Lisa lowe: As you can see the fire has been extinguished. The rocket fired from Thunderbird 1 has

robbed it of the oxygen it needed to burn. Amazing! The Thunderbirds have done it again, Chuck! '


The boys watching the TV with Alan and Fermat begin cheering.



Chuck: That was great work, Lisa. Thanks a lot.


KNOW IT ALL KID (directed at Alan) Ooh, I wish I could be a Thunderbird one

Day. thunderturd!:


The boys in the room "ooohh" and look at Alan for a response



Alan: That's another good one, diaper boy.



All the boys look at the Know It All Kid and laugh


Headmaster: Tracy! (after finding Alan in the sea of boys he continues) There's someone here for you.


Lady Penelope Creighton-Ward, at your service. Alan darling, your father's been unexpectedly detained.

And he's asked me to pick you up. Is that all right?


Fermat: Sure beats the bus!


Alan: Definitely!


Lady penelope: Fantastic. Now, will any of these gorgeous young things be joining you?


All of the boys raise their hands and shout for Alan to choose them.

Alan: Just Fermat.

Lady penelope: Quite right.


Alan: Lady Penelope, why are you in America? Are you on a mission for my father?



Lady penelope: Alan, shh! I am an undercover agent, so please try to be discreet. (camera pans over to

Lady Penelope's pink car with Parker, her butler waiting by the open door.) Here we are.


Fermat: Hi, Parker.


Parker: Good afternoon, Master Hackenbacker.



Alan: Hi, Nosey.


Parker: Less of that attitude, or I shall be obliged to deliver the Parker Haymaker.



Alan: Okay, bring it on, big guy.


They are all in the car and Parker is driving away


Lady penelope: Try not to run over any children, Parker.



Parker: Very good, milady.


Lady penelope: Come on, Parker, chop chop!


Lady Penelope's begins to fly


Alan: All right!


Fermat: Whoa!


Alan: YES!


Fermat: Yeah! the boys high five


Lady penelope: Pink is the new black this season.



Parker: I'm very glad to hear it, milady.


Lady penelope: And hemlines are going up.


Parker: That is good news, milady.


Lady penelope: Oh and apparently England won the football last night.


Parker: Yes! Eng-er-land! (his hands go off the steering wheel and the car begins (reading a newspaper) Oh, look, Parker. to move to one side)

Fermat and alan: Whoa!

Lady penelope: Calm down, Parker.


Parker: Yes, milady. Sorry, milady.


Scene change to: San Francisco City Hospital California, USA parking lot.


Panhead's mother: Come on, baby. Out you jump. (Turns to her teenage son who has a pan stuck on

his head) Wait till your father hears about this, panhead! They are walking toward the hospital

entrance when she sees the lights of Thunderbird 2 Aliens!


Panhead: Even better! It's the Thunderbirds!



Virgil: OK, lock it up. Let's go. Let's move it. Hey, we need some help over here.



Jeff: Mission complete. Thunderbird 1 we are good to go.


Scott: FAB.


Mullion walks away from the others and fires a tracking goo at Thunderbird 1.


Scene switches to a moving underwater submarine


Male computer voice: Tracking device, activated.


The hood: Ah, the chariot of the gods. Having dallied with the mortals,

they return to Olympus. And so I follow.


Parker: Pardon me, milady. Approaching Tracy Island. And radar indicates we have some company.


Thunderbird 1 and 2 pull up next to Lady Penelope's flying car and Scott waves at Alan before Alan

turns to look at Thunderbird 2 where his father salutes at him. Thunderbird 1 then does a barrel roll

around Thunderbird 2 before they both jet off toward the island, leaving Lady Penelope's car behind.


Lady penelope: Now, that's showing off.


Alan: I wish that was me.


Brains: I'm about to run post flight checks, Mr Tracy. Anything I sh-sh-sh-

Anything you want to tell me?


Jeff: Brains, I noticed a build-up of vibration on Thunderbird 2, followed by illumination of the number 5

Engine out light.:


Brains: Okay, Mr. Tracy, I'll ch-ch-ch-study the flight data and guidance processor.


Alan: Dad!

Jeff: Alan! Let me look at you. He hold Alan at arm's length and then looks him over. He then looks

over and sees his older sons approaching. Ah oh look out.


Virgil: Hey Sprout! ruffles his hair


Scott: ruffles his hair Hey Buddy!


Onaha: Dinner's ready. Come and get it.


Jeff: Onaha, it smells delicious. I am starved.



Alan: So Dad, I saw the mission on TV. It looked dangerous.


Jeff: Saving lives is a dangerous business. But it's what we do.


Alan: Do you think the fire was caused by thermal up draughts? I mean that would explain the-- (Jeff

Cuts him off):


Jeff: Whoa, whoa, whoa, enough shop talk. I want to hear about school.


Alan: School's boring. Plus I've been thinking, maybe I could be home-educated now. That way, I could

sit in on missions from time to time. What do you think?


Jeff: No short cuts, Alan. No school, no rockets. Say, why aren't you wearing your retainer?



Scott: So I'm getting the reading telling me that the wind is blowing 60 knots, right up my keister.


Virgil: No kidding.


Alan: Did you try readjust the flaps?


Scott: Well that's the first thing I did, Sprout! It's not my first day in a Thunderbird you know.


Gordon: Try and keep up!


Virgil: Yeah and don't you have homework to do or something?


Gordon: Unless he's blown up this school, like the last one!


Scott: Yeah, keep Alan away from the ships, he's a hazard.


Jeff: Okay, that's enough. Pass the salad.



Virgil: Man, I haven't seen that much fire since that volcano in Fiji.


Scott: That wasn't Fiji that was Istanbul.


Virgil: No, no, Istanbul was the earthquake.


Scott: Yeah well, nothing compares to Argentina.



Alan: Dad, I'm not really hungry. Come on, Fermat. Let's go.


Fermat: But! I'm not done! (sighs) Okay.


After dinner:


Jeff: Kyrano, have you seen Lady P?


Kyrano: By the pool.


Jeff: Of course.


Lady penelope:



(answers her ringing cell phone) Parker. Scene changes to Alan and Fermat about to enter Thunderbird 1's silo.


Fermat: We're not supposed to go in there. We could get in trouble.


Alan: Ah, you worry too much.


Fermat: Where'd you get the access code for Thunderbird 1 anyway?


Alan: Fermat, my friend, what you don't know, can't hurt you.


Scene changes back to Lady Penelope and Jeff by the pool


Lady penelope: I'll be right there. It seems the fire at the oil rig was no accident.


Jeff: Any suspects?


Lady penelope: Not yet, but I'll keep you posted.



Alan: Thanks for bringing Alan home.


Lady penelope: My pleasure. Any excuse to visit paradise.



Jeff: Tintin!


Tintin: Hey, Mr. Tracy.


Lady penelope: Hello, Tintin.


Tintin: Good evening, Lady Penelope.


Jeff: Did you know Alan's home?

Tintin: one) I mean, oh,

(makes an annoyed face) Alan's back? (changes her tone to a more pleasant Alan's back! (looks at Kyrano) Hey, Dad.


Jeff: When are those two going to get along?



Lady penelope: When Tintin decides the time is right. Girls always fire ahead of boys with that sort of

Thing.:


Jeff: What sort of thing?


Lady penelope:


Jeff: Alan and Tintin? I didn't see that one coming.


Lady penelope: No, you wouldn't.


Jeff: Have a safe flight home, Penny.


Lady penelope: Thanks, Jeff.


(rolls her eyes) Romance. Scene switches to Fermat and Alan playing around in Thunderbird 1 like they are really about to fly it

Into a mission.:


Alan: Okay, Fermat. Run pre-flight checks.



Fermat: Right. Hydraulic systems are green.



Alan: Commence main engine sequence.


Fermat: FAB, Alan.


Alan: Couldn't hurt to just fire up the instruments.



Fermat: No wait, Alan! That's the(Thunderbird 1 begins to start up and Fermat shouts) Wrong switch!



Alan: Oh God. (There is loud beeping coming from the control panel and the boys can't shut down

Thunderbird 1) Oh, could this day get any worse?


Scene briefly changes to Jeff getting an alert in his office.



Jeff: 1) Alan, my office. Now. (Thunderbird 1 shuts

Down):


Fermat: It just did.

(his face appears on a monitor in Thunderbird The boys walk out of Thunderbird 1 and are walking toward the silo door. Fermat is running his hand

on the nosecone of Thunderbird 1.

Alan: I can't believe it.


Fermat: We're so b-b-busted.


Fermat's hand touches the goo that Mullion fired at Thunderbird 1 earlier.


Fermat: Look at this.


Alan: What is it?


Fermat: Looks like some sort of, gallium-electrolyte compound.


Alan: We gotta get out of here.


Scene changes to Alan walking into his dad's office.


Alan: Dad, I know you're mad. I shouldn't have been in the ship, but if you just give me a minute to

explain- (Jeff cuts him off)


Jeff: You're damn right you shouldn't have been in there!


Alan: But, nothing happened Dad. I had it under control.


Jeff: Under control? Do you have any idea of the importance of secrecy in our operation? You fired up

a Thunderbird without activating the anti-detection shield. You put everyone in danger when you act

selfishly. You want to be part of the team, you have to play by the rules. You understand? (Alan just

looks at him) Do you?


Alan: Yeah, I understand. I understand you don't want me to be a Thunderbird. You don't want me to

do anything. You won't even listen to me when I'm trying to tell you something important!


Jeff: I've heard enough. You're grounded for the rest of spring break.


Alan: But, Dad!


Jeff: Bottom line, Alan. You need to grow up.


Alan: Then let me. (he stalks toward the door before whispering,) Please!


Jeff is starting at two old family photos on his desk when the video phone rings.


Jeff: Hey, John. I was just about to turn in. What can I do for you?


John tracy: I could sure use a pizza. You know a place that delivers?


Jeff: 30 minutes or it's free, right? Anything else on your mind?

John: Well, got a forest fire in Vladivostok, a typhoon heading for Singapore. What's happening on

Planet tracy?:


Jeff: Alan's home for spring break.


John: Yeah, I thought I could see a storm brewing in your region.


Jeff: Teenagers.


John: Well, we've all been there. And Dad, you've done a great job since Mom died.



Jeff: Thanks, John. Keep an eye on that typhoon for us. And, uh, I'll call Vladivostok, see if they need

help with that fire.


John: FAB, Dad. Sleep tight.


Fermat is down with his father in the Thunderbirds hanger.


Fermat: Morning, Dad.


Brains: Hey, son. There's something I'd like to sh-sh-sh- Here, take a look.


Fermat: The neural-net control system?


Brains: It's great to have you back. I bet you didn't think spring break was going to be this w- w-fun.

Watch this.:


Brains uses the neural-net control system to lift up the phone in front of him. It also lifts up the Mole

which is stationed behind his workplace.


Brains: And that tiny phone lifts up, perfect.



Fermat: Dad?


The neural-net control system short circuits.


Brains: N-n-n- Almost perfect.


Fermat: There's something I want to talk to you about.


Brains: Oh. Right. Oh. OK, right. You're having problems with a g-g-g-chi-chi-chi-wo-wo-female?



Fermat: N-no! No. Alan and I found some sort of gallium compound on the nosecone of Thunderbird

1.:


Brains: We should check that out st-st-st-immediately.


Fermat: That'd be g-g-g-swell!

Scene skips to Alan skipping rocks at the beach. The camera follows one rock and it leads to a

telescope coming out of the water. The telescope is connected to the Hood's submarine.


Mullion: The island is in sight.


The hood: Transom, I need you.


Transom: Yes, sir. Sir, our cloaking device has evaded their detection

systems. We have a positive visual from the tracking solution on Thunderbird 1.


The hood: Mullion.


Mullion: Sir? Sir, armed and ready. Shall I target the main structure?


The hood: Why would I want to destroy what will soon be mine? One of the principle tenets of Eastern

martial arts is to use your opponent's strength against him.



The Hood uses his powers to keep Mullion in place


Mullion: can't) This is ridiculous.


The hood: It will be almost impossible to force the Thunderbirds to leave their island. On the other

(trying to move and realizing that he hand, it requires no effort at all to let them go.


The Hood stops using his powers on Mullion and Mullion falls over.


The hood: The Thunderbirds' purpose is to rescue. All we need do is give them the victim.

(The Hood looks at Transom) Commence targeting.


Transom: Straightaway, sir. Target acquisition of Thunderbird 5 is locked.


The hood: Fire.


Transom fires a missile at Thunderbird 5.


Scene switches to John on Thunderbird 5 when suddenly alarms start to go off around him.



John: What the?



John: Thunderbird 5 to Tracy Island. Mayday! Mayday!


Missile hits Thunderbird 5 and John is blow back into a wall from the explosion. The scene then

switches over to Tracy Island.


Brains and Fermat run into Jeff's office.


Brains: Switching to Command and Control Center. Command

And control):


(Brains uses a palm scanner to activate The submarine is briefly showed getting closer to the island.



Jeff, Scott, Virgil, and Gordon come running into Command and Control.


Jeff: How bad, Brains?


Brains: Thunderbird 5 major damage sustained. Possible m-m-m-Possible strike by m-



Jeff: Meteor?


Brains: Yep.


Jeff: Thunderbirds are go.


Scene change to inside Thunderbird 3.


Gordon: Check retros. Go.



Jeff: Go to maximum thrust.


Scene switches to the submarine.


The hood: There goes the cavalry. But who will rescue the rescuers?


Scene changes to Alan on the beach looking up at Thunderbird 3 launching and heading toward

Thunderbird 5. Tintin runs up beside him and looks up as well.



Fermat: Alan! Tintin! Thunderbird 5 has been hit! Thunderbird 5 has been hit! Thunderbird 5 has been

Hit!:


Alan: Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay don't panic. Don't panic.


The children look toward the beach when they hear a noise and see the submarine beginning to

Surface.:


Alan: On the other hand.

Alan, fermat, tintin: Run!


The kids run and hide behind some trees and shrubs. Scene then switches to inside the submarine.

Mullion: We made land.


The hood:



Transom: Activating communications blackout.



(directed toward Transom) Cut them off. Scene switch to Brains in Command and Control



Brains: What the he-he-devil is going on?



Brains: Mr. Tracy, do you copy?



Brains: Thunderbird 3 please respond.


Scene switch back to the kids hiding on the beach.


Alan: How'd they find the island? Do you think it was what I did in Thunderbird 1? Do you think I ruined

Everything?:


Fermat: No! That compound we found could have some sort of transmitting capability.



Tintin: We have to do something.


Fermat: My dad's in the control room, but how do we get there now?


Alan: The vents. Let's go! We have to get a message to my dad.


Scene switch to Thunderbird 5



John: I'm losing all power. Repeat, I'm losing all power.


Jeff: Hold on, John. We're coming in. Gordon, prepare for immediate docking.


Gordon: You got it, Dad. Reverse main thrusters on my mark. Three, two, one.


Jeff: Easy. Watch the roll.

Virgil: Roll index angle minus two degrees.



Gordon: We're locked on.


Jeff: Nice work



Scott: Tunnel hatch secured.


Jeff: Emergency packs boys. Let's move!



Jeff: We're in. Let's go!


Jeff, Scott, Virgil, and Gordon are now in the damaged Thunderbird 5 with John.


Jeff: John! Scott, tackle that fire.


John: Am I glad to see you guys!


Jeff: Easy, you're hurt. Virgil, take care of your brother. Gordon, give me a damage assessment.


Scene switch to back on the island. The kids are running through the jungle while heading toward the

vents and the Hood and his crew are heading toward Command and Control.


Alan: Come on, hurry!


Inside the Tracy house Transom has found the closed door to Command and Control center. Using an

electronic device she finds out what type of door it is.


Transom: One-inch steel plate, with sequential titanium locking mechanism.


MULLION (Looks and door and pops his joints) I love a challenge.



Scene changes to right outside the Tracy house as the kids are approaching the vents.


Fermat: Watch out for the guards.


Alan: Get in, get in.


Scene switches to Brains sitting nervously in the Command and Control room, whistling nervously to

himself and reading a magazine upside down. On the other side of the door there is muffled banging

from where Mullion is trying to break open the door.



Brains: and the Hood walk in) Who-o-o-o- What's going on?

The hood: So, this is Mount Olympus. And these are the Thunderbirds. I should have guessed. Jeff

(Door bursts open and Mullion, Transom, Tracy, the billionaire, ex-astronaut, of course. Isn't he the one who lost his wife in an accident?

Avalanche wasn't it? How tragic.


Scene switches to Alan, Tintin, and Fermat walking in the vents toward the one that leads to the

Command and Control room.


Alan: ahead.


Tintin:


(Whispers) Just keep going straight (whispers) Okay. Scene switches back to Command and Control room.


Transom: Professor Hackenbacker? We met at last year's international conference on


nanotechnology. I thought your thesis on neutrinos was extremely, stimulating.


The hood: Transom, concentrate!


Transom: Sorry, sir. The command control switch, is here. Fingerprint recognition system.



The hood: Professor. Please. Activate the control switch.


Brains: N-n-n-n-n- You must be kidding.


The hood: Professor, you and I share an interest in the science of the mind. The difference is, I was

born with my powers. Trust me when I tell you, you've barely touched the surface. (Brains is forced to

stand up and walked over to the Hood) Even the strongest minds can be broken. It would be a pity to

Break yours.:


Brains: Fu-Fu-Fu- No way!


The hood: Activate the control switch, Prof! (Uses his powers to make BRAINS move) Like a puppet on

A string! (laughs):


Brains hand touches the activation pad.



Transom: We have control.


Mullion:


Transom: Sorry, Professor. Nothing personal.



(To Brains) Get up. Scene briefly switches to the children's worried faces in the vents. Scene then changes back to

Thunderbird 5, where the control panel is buzzing.


Scott: We got a warning light on our EPS system.


Jeff: Attempt manual override.


Scott: No, that's negative!


Scene switches back to Alan, Tintin, and Fermat in the vents.



Alan: That's it.


Fermat: Okay, this one.


Scene switches to Thunderbird 5.


Jeff: Back to Thunderbird 3 now. (turns to help an injured John) John, we gotta move.


Gordon: The locking mechanism's jammed!


The hood: Attention, Thunderbird 5. As you can see I have taken over your facilities. You no longer

control your operational systems.


Scene change back to the kids in the vent. They can stick their heads out of the vent and see into the

Command and Control Room, but they are hidden behind a panel and the Hood and his minions

Cannot see them.:


Alan: They've taken over.


The hood: Warm them up, Transom.


Transom: Increasing temperature to maximum.



The children are now looking into the Command and Control room. Kyrano and his wife, Onaha, are

Dragged in.:


Alan: Who's the bald freak?


Kyrano: You? The Hood uses his powers on him and he falls down clutching his head.



Tintin: Dad!


Fermat: They've got m-my dad.


Jeff: Okay, you have our attention. Who are you? What do you want?


The hood: Oh how rude of me. You can call me The Hood. Now, listen, Mr. Tracy. We won't be

negotiating. I'm going to use the Thunderbirds to rob the largest banks in the world, starting with the

Bank of London. The world's monetary system will be thrown into chaos and the Thunderbirds held

Responsible.:

Scott: You'll never get away with it.


Jeff: Why the Thunderbirds?


The hood: An eye for an eye, Mr. Tracy.


Jeff: An eye for an eye?


The hood: Perhaps you've forgotten me, but surely you remember saving the life of my brother,


Kyrano?:


Kyrano: Turns to the video phone that the Hood has been using to communicate with Thunderbird 5.

I'm sorry, Mr. Tracy. I thought he was dead.


The hood: them away.


Mullion: Yes, sir.


(Laughs and then turns to the guards)Take The kids lift their heads back up into the vents


Alan: Whoa.


Tintin: That makes The Hood my uncle?


Fermat: Every family has a black sh-sh- a black sh- (Sneezes and everyone in the Command and

Control room looks around, while Brains pretends that it was him that sneezed.)


Fermat: murder with my allergies.


(Turns to look at Alan) This room's The kids stick their heads back out the vent and look at what is going on in the Command and Control

Room.:


The hood: You left me to die that day. You may have broken my body but you've no idea how

powerful my mind has become. And now you will suffer, as I suffered, waiting for a rescue that will

never come. (Makes a motion for Transom to cut off the call with Thunderbird 5.)


Jeff: Wait! (Video link cuts dead and then the scene cuts to Thunderbird 5.) Scott, status report.


Scott: CO2 levels are rising.


Jeff: Alright, wire the oxygen scrubber to the emergency batteries. Clean the air.



Virgil: How long will that give us?

John: About four hours.


Scene switches back to the kids looking into the Command and Control room. Fermat begins to start

sneezing again. Tintin and Alan put their hands over his nose and mouth to try and muffle the sound.)

Mullion: Someone's there. (Mullion walks over to the ceiling, he is standing directly below where

they are. The kids are trying to leave the vents when his hand shoots up through the ceiling and grabs

Alan's ankle. He lets go after Tintin bites his hand and he gasps in pain.)


The children are now talking loudly and everyone in the Command and Control room can hear them.


Tintin: Run! Run!


Alan: No, jump! We can get through to the silos.


The children scream as they fall down a tunnel leading to the silos. And the scene switches to the

Command and Control room.


The hood: Apparently, the island is not as secure as you thought. (he looks at the old photos that were

on Jeff's desk. Children! Did you find any children?


Transom: the silos) Here they are. Thunderbird 2 silo, in the

Loading arm.:


(Using the security cameras to see into Mullion and two other guards run off to get them


The hood:



Alan: Hold on!


Tintin: The doors! You guys, let's go! C'mon



Fermat: Go! Go!


(Speaking to Transom) Seal them in. The children reach the door that leads to Thunderbird 3's silo just as it closes.


Alan: This way. (They run toward the still closing Thunderbird 1 silo door.)



Fermat: get through it) No!


Tintin: They've got us trapped. What now?


Fermat: If we can get to the Thunderbird 1's silo, we can escape through the service tunnel. But we

(After the door closes before they can need a plan, Alan.


Alan: I'll use the Thunderizer on the door.



guards are in the elevator heading down to come get them)


Alan: You guys get the goons with the Firefly!


Fermat: Alan! This equipment is only to be used in an emergency. (Alan and Tintin give him looks) I

Guess this qualifies.:


Alan: Yeah.


Tintin: Here they come. Fermat, can you drive this thing?


Fermat: Uh, no.


Tintin: Hey, watch it!


Fermat: I took microbiology, not driver's ed. Set the pressure to maximum.


Tintin: Got it.


Mullion: and see Tintin pointing the Firefly at them) Retreat!

(The guards walk out of the elevator (They fall over and have trouble getting up due to the slipperiness of the stuff fired at them)


Tintin: Let's move it.


Alan: That's it. Time to thunderize. (After the door has a hole cut in it.) Yes!



Alan: Come on, let's go!


Mullion: Get 'em!


Alan: Where's Fermat?


Tintin: Fermat!


Alan: Fermat!


Fermat: Coming!


Alan: Hurry up. (the children are now in Thunderbird 1's silo) What were you doing back there,


Fermat?:


Fermat: I had an-n-n idea.


Alan: Just try and keep up, okay? I'll open the tunnel. We gotta keep moving. (Alan types in a pass

Code):


Alan: when you see them coming. (tries another (To Tintin and Fermat) Go back. Yell pass code)


Alan turns away from the door for a moment and the camera can see The Hood on the other side of

the door. Alan turns back and sees him.


The hood: Alan. You can run if you want. Were you surprised to hear what your father did to me? It is

frightening when we realize our parents aren't perfect. But perhaps you already suspected that about

your father. Why did he build these magnificent machines? Do you suppose it was guilt? Because he

let your mother die. (Alan shakes his head no) Open the door, Alan. (Alan continues to shake his head

no) (The Hood chuckles at his refusal) Open, the, door. (He tries to use his powers on Alan but nothing

Happens):


Alan: go this way. He's there.


(Shouting to Tintin and Fermat) We can't The Hood uses his powers to open the door and Mullion and the other guards appear at the other

doorway, leaving the children trapped.


Fermat: No! (he falls slightly) Ow. What are we gonna do, Alan?


Alan: I don't know. I'm thinking, okay? (Alan looks at the control panel behind the Hood and sees a

button that will open part of the floor under Thunderbird 1. Keep backing up. I've got an idea. (Alan

takes his rock launcher from the pouch it is in on the back of his pants. and fires it at the button, but

Misses.):


Tintin: That's your idea?


The hood: It's not me you're angry at, Alan.



Alan: It's not you I'm aiming at. (Alan fires another rock and this time hits the button and the floor

drops out from underneath Tintin, Fermat, and Alan. Tintin, Fermat, and Alan scream as they fall.)


The hood: Get them!


Mullion: Transom, fire up Thunderbird 1. And set it on broil!


The kids look behind them while they are falling down the tunnel and see the flames coming from

Thunderbird 1 behind them. Tintin screams even louder. The tunnel opens up and leads to the ocean.


Back in Command and Control


Transom: No sign of them.


Mullion: Of course not, the little brats went up like firecrackers. Pop, pop, pop!

(laughs at Brains and Brains moves to punch him.)


The hood: Don't, give him the satisfaction, Professor. This is taking too long. Pick out the equipment

you need to get into those banks and load it into Thunderbird 2. No more delays.


Mullion: Yes, sir.

Scene switches to the children trying to get onto the beach, they are getting knocked over by a couple

of waves. Fermat is coughing and spluttering.


Fermat: How about a little warning next time you pull a stunt like that?


Alan: Relax, Fermat. It's just a little water.



Fermat: I could have drowned.


Alan: You mean you can't swim?!


Fermat: I repeat, I could have drowned.


Scene switches to the boys ringing out their shirts, they are both in their boxers.


Alan: I said I was sorry, Fermat. Just put this behind us, Okay? We gotta watch each other's backs.

Nice drawers.:


Fermat: Thank you.


Tintin: Boo!


Alan: No, c'mon Tintin, stay there.


Tintin: You're worse than a couple of girls. Hurry up and get dressed. (To Fermat) Those are nice

Drawers!:


Scene switches to the children walking along one of the beaches.



Fermat: Data from Tracy Island is sent to Thunderbird 5 via satellite, right?


Alan: Right.


Fermat: So, there's a miniscule possibility that if we reach the satellite station, we could


Alan: Blow it up!


Fermat: No, we could hack in to it and give control back to Thunderbird 5.


Alan: Good thinking, Fermat. Alright, let's do it. (Alan starts drawing the plan in the sand) Here's the

plan. We're here, right?. So, we go along the shore around the base of the mountain to the access road,

here. And then up to the transmitter. So what do you think?



Tintin: Good. Except that we're here, not there, and the transmitter is there, not here. We have to go

Through the jungle.:


Fermat: But that's f-f- off limits.

Tintin: It's gonna be dangerous.


Alan: I'm in. (All three of them put their hands together) We gotta get up there fast! All our folks are

in trouble and if The Hood gets off the island


Fermat: Actually, he's not going anywhere for now.


Alan: The guidance processor for Thunderbird 2. You can't take off without it. Fermat you're a genius.

How'd you get this?


Fermat: Alan, my friend, what you don't know, can't hurt you.


Scene switches to Lady Penelope's Country Mansion in England, where Parker is out cleaning a car

when the car phone rings.


Lady penelope: Parker?


Parker: Milady?


Lady penelope: We have an emergency.


Scene switch to Lady Penelope's bathroom


Lady penelope: What a charming fellow.


Someone knocks on the door.


Lady penelope: Come in.


Parker enters Lady Penelope's bathroom, with tea, where she is up to her shoulders in bubble bath.


Lady penelope: Have a look at this, Parker. (There is a computer monitor near her feet.) He, and this

woman, poor girl, both work for this man, known as The Hood.



Parker: Sounds like an alias, milady.


Lady penelope: Quite right, Parker. Real name: Trangh Belagant. Assumed dead when


his illegal diamond mine collapsed in the jungles of the Malaya. (takes a sip of tea) Oh, perfect, Parker.

The Thunderbirds rescued over 500 mine workers, including Mr. Belagant's brother.


Parker: Milady, that's Mr. Tracy's loyal manservant, Kyrano.


Lady penelope: How's my schedule, Parker?


Parker: You have clay pigeon shooting with Lord Marlborough, a benefit gala for the Institute of the

Blind, and incidentally there's a typhoon bearing down on Singapore.


Lady penelope: I suppose that's urgent.


Parker: Yes, milady. There was also a bridge collapsed in Buenos Aires and a volcanic eruption in

Jakarta.:


Lady penelope: The Thunderbirds haven't responded?



Parker: No, milady. And the media is awash in speculation vis-à-vis their whereabouts. Parker turns on

The news.:


Chuck: Over to Lisa Lowe.


Lisa lowe: Chuck, disaster after disaster around the world today and still no sight of the Thunderbirds.

Typhoon Jago hit land in Singapore just one hour ago and thousands have been left homeless by a

volcano in Jakarta. Only the Thunderbirds have the incredible machines


Lady penelope: I think it's time to send the emergency signal, Parker.


Parker: I fear you're not wrong, milady.


Lisa lowe: Lisa Lowe. Back to you, Chuck.


Parker hits the top of the tea pot and a light pops out and begins to blink and beep. Back on Tracy

Island a similar light begins to flash and bleep but Brains is unable to get up to get to it because he is

Tied up.:


Scene switch to the kids walking through the jungle.


Alan: I'm telling you, Fermat, it was like The Hood was inside my head back there.



Fermat: What do you mean, Alan?


Alan: Maybe he can read minds or control minds or something.


Fermat: Don't be silly, Alan. Everything can be explained by science.


Alan: I'm just trying to figure out his weakness. Everybody has an Achilles heel, right?



Fermat: My Achilles heel is actually my Achilles heel. It's got a blister the size of a basketball. Tintin!

Can we s-s-:


Tintin: Stop?


Fermat: Yes!


Tintin: No!


Fermat:

Alan: cheeseburgers for you, Fermat.


(sighs) Okay. (Helping Fermat up the hill) No more Scene change back to Lady Penelope's house.


Lady penelope: Any word?


Parker: Nothing, milady.


Lady penelope: Right. You will have to tell Lord Marlborough that I've broken my shooting arm. We


shall send the Institute for the Blind a dozen guide dogs. And bring the car around.


Parker: Yes, milady.


Lady penelope: The Thunderbirds appear to be in a spot of trouble. And I don't like that. Let's go,

Parker.:


They get in the car and it takes off flying toward Tracy Island. Scene switches to Mullion and the Hood

in the Thunderbirds hanger.


Mullion: Ready for launch. We'll use this to get into the vaults.


The hood: Subtle, as usual, Mullion.


Mullion: I didn't realize we'd be getting points for style. We're robbing banks, remember.



The Hood uses his power on Mullion and Mullion gasps.


The hood: Don't worry. You'll get your money.



Mullion: speaks into headset) Transom, initiate pre-flight

Diagnostics.:


(Looks over toward Thunderbird 2 and An alarm suddenly goes off in Thunderbird 2.


Mullion: What's going on?



Transom: It's the guidance processor.


Mullion: What's wrong with it?


Transom: There isn't one.


Mullion: Aaargh!


The hood: Clever Alan. It's the children. They have it.

Mullion: No way. They're dead. No one could live through something like that.


The hood: I did. Get them, Mullion. Take whatever you need. And make sure you get the guidance

processor before you lose your temper.


Scene switches to the children in the jungle.


Fermat: Alan, don't you think Tintin is blossoming?



Alan: Blossoming?! What's that supposed to mean?


Fermat: Come on, Alan. You've a c-crush on her.



Alan: You've got to be kidding. I mean, she's. She's not that bad, I guess.


Tintin: guys, take five.


Fermat: isn't going to do it!


Tintin: Guys?


(Reaches the top of the mountain) Okay, (Still finishing climbing up the mountain)Five Alan and Fermat reach the top of the mountain, they are both puffing and panting. Tintin smiles at

them before she sees a scorpion on Alan's shoulder.


Tintin: Don't move.


Fermat: to Alan) Whoa


Alan: What is it?


Tintin: Hexdrotilous scorpion.


Alan: Is that dangerous?


Fermat: .025 milligrams of its venom is fatal.



Alan: So, dangerous is in fact an understatement.



(Sees scorpion when he stands up next Tintin uses powers just like her uncle, The Hood, to lift the scorpion off of Alan's shoulder and lets it

fall to the ground.


Fermat: Watch out!


Alan: Tintin, what was that?


Tintin: Let's get going.

Alan: Hey! She has the same powers as her uncle, The Hood.


Fermat: You think?


Alan: Must run in the family. Did you do that?



Tintin: Just drop it, okay?


Alan: Still think everything can be explained by science?


Fermat: Not girls!


Scene cuts to Thunderbird 5 where there is an alarm and then an explosion near Scott and Gordon.


Jeff: Scott? Gordon? You all right?


Gordon: We're okay.


Scott: The heat exchanger has blown.


Jeff: You don't say.


Scene switches back to Mullion and two other guards searching the jungle for Alan, Tintin, and

Fermat.:


Mullion: Come on! Those brats are in here somewhere.



Scene change to the kids at the satellite transmitter.


Alan: How we doing Fermat?


Fermat: Don't rush me Alan. This is very d-delicate equipment. (The circuit board sparks.) Which is

Now b-b-broken.:


Alan: Can you fix it?


Fermat: Yea- Maybe, but I'll need something to solder with.


Alan: We're in the middle of nowhere Fermat, where are you going to find something like that. (Tintin

and Fermat see Alan's retainer and share a look) What?


Alan yells as Tintin and Fermat pull out the metal part of Alan's retainer.


Alan: Ow!


Fermat: Perfect.


Tintin: Gee Alan, I never figured you for a crybaby.

Alan: I'm gonna kill you.


Fermat: What'd he say?


Tintin: I think it was some sort of apology.



Fermat: I got it, yes! Y-y-you the man, Fermat! Okay, first step is to establish contact with Thunderbird

5.:


Scene switch to Thunderbird 5


Alan: Dad?


John: It's Alan!


Jeff: Alan, where are you? Are you safe?



Alan: I'm at the satellite relay station with Fermat and Tintin. Fermat's gonna hack into the main

computer system and give control of Thunderbird 5 back to you.



Jeff: We're standing by.


Fermat: Okay, we're almost there.


Scene switches to Command and Control room with Transom and Brains.



Transom: Goodness me, Professor. You're so good-looking without your glasses on. I think you may

find that's another thing we have in common. Pretty? (She leans in to kiss him, but an alarm sounds at

The control panel):



Transom: Oh now that's not fair. Just when things were starting to sizzle.



Transom: of transmission from the island's satellite station.

(To the Hood as he walks in) A burst Should I jam it?


The hood: And give Mullion the coordinates.


Scene switches to Mullion and the two guards in a car. Transom is communicating with him through

His headset.:


Transom: Take the main track southeast, then head up Satellite Hill.


Scene switches back to the kids at the satellite station.

Fermat: They're onto us! We're being jammed!



Alan: Can you finish?


Fermat: I'll try.


Jeff: happening?


Alan: Hang in there Dad, one more minute, okay?


Fermat: It's not going to work Alan. The signal's too weak for data transmission.


Alan: Dad, can you hear me? They're jamming the signal. We're going to lose you. Don't worry, I'll

(Through the video phone) Alan, what's take care of everything, okay?


Jeff: That's a negative! It's too dangerous. Follow emergency procedure. Wait for Lady Penelope at the

rendezvous point. Alan can you read me? (the screen begins to break up)


Alan: Dad!


Jeff: Alan we're losing you! Alan!


Alan: Dad!


Alan throws the video phone


Fermat: No!


Alan: Useless!


Fermat: It is now.


Tintin: I'm sorry, Alan. This is hard on all of us.


Alan: No, it's okay. I'm fine.


Fermat: You don't have to be such a tough guy Alan. I'm worried about my dad too.



Tintin: I'd do anything to be with my parents right now.


Alan: But The Hood knows we're alive now. We have to go.

Fermat: Even worse, they know exactly


Tires screech and Mullion and the guards appear.


Fermat: Where we are!

Mullion and the other guards watch the kids running down the hillside for a second.


Mullion: Come on!


The kids fall down a ditch screaming and into a river.


Fermat: Great, more water.


Alan: Tintin, can you slow 'em down?


Tintin: I'd be delighted.


Alan: Then do it. And meet us at the junk yard. Come on, Fermat.


Scene changes to Alan and Fermat discovering a hoversled in the junkyard.


Alan: This'll get us out of here.


Scene change to Mullion hunting Tintin down in the forest.


Mullion: There! Come on!


Tintin looks up and sees a bees hive.


Mullion: Straight ahead.


Tintin uses a limb to hit the bee hive at Mullion and the other two guards. Mullion falls off the car

and into a puddle while being stung by bees. The scene cuts back to Alan and Fermat in the junkyard

attaching something to the back of the hoversled so that all three of them can fit on it.


Fermat: It's gonna make this thing hard to control you know.


Alan: No problem.


Fermat: You really must be careful not to exceed four bars of boost or else


Alan: I said no problem.


Tintin: Guys, let's go we've got to get out of here. What is this?


Fermat: It's a hoversled.


Alan: It's our ticket out, unless you've got a better idea.


Tintin: Yeah, let's wait for Lady Penelope, like your dad said.


Fermat: (Hands Tintin the seat to the hoversled) Here.

Alan: Great plan. Let's sit and wait to get caught. I say we do something. Now! Right, Fermat?


Fermat: Actually, I agree with Tintin. I don't think this is s-s-safe.


Alan: You don't think anything is s s-safe.



Fermat: Just because I s-s-stutter doesn't mean that I'm wrong. If we're a team, we should make

decisions as a team.


Alan: Do you guys want to sit here and take a vote? Or do you want to get out of here? Cuz I'm going.


Tintin: You can be a real jerk sometimes.


Scene changes to Mullion looking up and seeing the kids escaping on the hoversled.


Mullion: Go!


Tintin: Mullion and the other guards in the car getting closer to

Them) oh, no!:


Mullion: Come on! Faster!


Fermat: Alan! You're going too fast!


Alan: I need more speed to get above the trees. Hang on!


(To the guards driving the car) Go! (After looking behind her and seeing Tintin and Fermat fall off the hoversled screaming and at Mullion's feet.


Alan: What'd I tell you guys? (looks down and sees Fermat and Tintin being captured.) Oh, no.


Scene switches to Mullion walking Tintin and Fermat to a door in the Tracy house.


Tintin: What are you doing?


Fermat: Oh, no! Not the fridge!


Fridge door opens to reveal Kyrano, Onaha, and Brains.


Onaha: Tintin!


Brains: Hey son.


Kyrano: Sweetheart, are you okay?


Tintin: I'm fine, Dad.


Mullion: him sit down on a container) Cool off, kid! (he

(Grabs Fermat away from Brains and has laughs evilly as he walks out of the fridge and closes the door on the way out)

Scene switch to Park and Lady Penelope approaching Tracy Island.



Parker: Tracy Island approaching, milady. Switching to aqua mode.


Lady penelope: Isn't life fun, sometimes?


Parker: Rib-tickling, milady.


Scene switches to Transom and The Hood in Command and Control getting an alarm that an aircraft is

Approaching tracy island.:


The hood: What is it?


Transom: We have an unidentified craft approaching the island at high speed.


Scene switches to Alan climbing over a hill and seeing Lady Penelope's car approaching.


Alan: Lady P!


Scene switches to Thunderbird 5


Jeff: Phew! Somebody roll down a window. It's getting a little hot in here.


Virgil: Re-entry into Earth's atmosphere in 37 minutes.


Scott: Oxygen's out in 30 so we won't feel it.


Jeff: Stop it!


Gordon: Come on, Dad. The situation's hopeless.



Jeff: No, it's not. There's still time. We've got people on the ground working for us.


Gordon: Alan? He's just a kid!


Jeff: He's a Tracy.


Scene switches quickly to Alan running through the forest and then to Lady Penelope and Parker

walking up to the Tracy house


Lady penelope: This doesn't look good, Parker.


Parker: No, milady.


Lady penelope: That bougainvillea is absolutely parched, and someone should do something about


That hideous hammock.:

The hood: (After seeing Lady Penelope and Parker) Whom do we have here? Mullion.


Mullion: I must warn you that I know judo, krai magna, and tae kwon do.


Lady penelope: And I know Parker.


Parker: Milady.


Mullion: (After Parker punches him in the face) You've broken my nose.


Parker: Yes, that was very much the intention of the maneuver.


Transom: and Lady Penelope pushes her over) Whoa!



Lady penelope: One tries so hard in life to sort things out on an intellectual-slash-conversational level.

(After she tries to attack Lady Penelope sometimes it's just not possible.


Lady Penelope continues to fight Transom and Parker continues to fight Mullion, the Hood is watching

Them.:


Parker: cabinet) Shall I bring the car around, milady?


Lady penelope: Parker, have a bit of a lie-down.


Parker: (Sees Mullion behind Lady Penelope) Excuse me, milady. (punches him and after that has no

(after Mullion threw him against a metal effect he picks up a frying pan and hits Mullion)


Transom goes back to fighting Lady Penelope and Mullion is fighting Parker.


The hood: Ah, Lady Penelope! Of course he has his palace. Why not his princess?



Lady penelope: Flattery will get you nowhere. (after she blocks the metal bar that Transom was trying

to hit her with) Ow! Have you any idea what a manicure costs these days?


Parker: through, milady.


(Is pushing Mullion forward) Coming The camera quickly pans a little bit outside to show Alan hidden behind some shrubs watching the

Fight.:


Parker: a sofa at them) Duck, milady!


Alan: He's weak. Using his power makes him weak. (The Hood, having heard something looks over

Toward where alan):


The hood: You're formidable opponent Lady Penelope. More than a match for most men.


Lady penelope: That's not saying much, then, is it?


The hood: Parker was about to throw at him) I suggest you

Let us pass.:


Lady penelope: Don't try your parlor games on me you sad, little man. You've committed a serious

(After the Hood uses his powers to throw (uses his powers to stop the punch that crime trespassing on this island. And in about (looks at Parker's watch) four seconds, I'm going to get

quite cross with you. (the Hood uses his powers to stop her foot which was about to come up and kick

Him.):


The hood: you, Alan? (he uses his powers on Parker and Lady

(with his back still to Alan) How are Penelope and they cry out in pain) (Alan moves to run back into the jungle) I hope you don't think I'm

going to chase you. (he uses his powers on Parker and Lady Penelope and they cry out in pain again)

You can make it stop, Alan. (Parker and Lady Penelope cry out again) You have something that belongs

To me.:


Parker: Really, sir, don't mind me. This isn't the first time my head's been pulverized. And it's never

done any real harm before. (The Hood once again uses his powers on them and they cry out in pain

Louder this time):


Alan: Stop! I'll give it to you. (throws the guidance processor

(comes out of his hiding place) Stop! toward the pool) Fetch! (the Hood uses his powers to bring it over to him before it can hit the water)


The hood: You made a match of it, Alan, I'll give you that. (to Mullion and Transom) Put them with the

others. (Transom grabs Parker)


Mullion: with me. (Grabs Alan's arms and throws Lady

(To Lady Penelope and Alan) You're coming Penelope over his shoulder)


Lady penelope: Put me down! This outfit is couture.



Scene switches to Thunderbird 5.


Jeff: Don't go to sleep. John, look at me. Keep your eyes open.


Scene switches back to the fridge where Mullion and Transom are taking Alan, Lady Penelope, and

Parker.:


Mullion: You need to cool off, milady.


Tintin: Lady Penelope!


Lady penelope: closes leaving them trapped) Right, that's quite

(To Mullion) Big oaf! (The fridge door enough losing for one day.


Alan: be right all the time?


Fermat: Not b-bad, actually.


Alan: I'm so sorry, Fermat.

Fermat: We make quite a pair. It's hard for me to t-t-talk. It's hard for you to l-l-listen.


Lady penelope: Parker, I have an idea.


Parker: Excellent, milady.


Lady penelope: Brains, how long do Jeff and the boys have?


Brains: I can't think. I'm too c-c-cold.


(To Fermat) So, how does it feel to Scene switches to Transom, Mullion, and The Hood in Thunderbird 2 about to leave Tracy Island.



Transom: The guidance processor has been installed.




Transom: Thunderbird 2 is ready for takeoff.




The hood: What is our ETA?


Mullion: Under an hour. Bank of London, here we come!


Scene changes back to the fridge.



Alan: We've got to be quick. The Hood's getting away.


Parker: In position, milady.


Lady penelope: Here we go.


Female computer voic: Launch sequence, stage two. (Lady Penelope kicks her shoe at an icicle

which falls and cuts through the ropes tying Parker's hands together.)



Alan: Yes!


Parker: Good shot, milady.


Lady penelope: on, Parker. Let's give the bad guys a good

Thrashing!:


(As they are untying everyone) Come Scene switches back to Thunderbird 2 launching

Stage three.:


Scene changes back to the fridge.


Parker: door) This seems to be a six-lever mortise, milady.


Lady penelope: I love it when your checkered past comes in handy Parker.


Parker: Thank you, milady. Unfortunately, I fear I shall need a piece of wire to access the mechanism.

(trying to figure out how to open the (Lady Penelope's hand goes up shirt to get her bra wire and everyone turns around)


Lady penelope: Will this suffice, Parker?


Parker: Most certainly, milady.


Lady penelope: I didn't actually need it, anyway.



Parker: Of course not, milady. (Parker gets the door open)


Fermat: Quick! They're getting away


Alan: Okay, everyone get to the control room.



Fermat:


(Hands Parker his hat) Hat. Scene switches to everyone running into the Command and Control room


Fermat: Get in there quick, Fermat, and save my family. Then we'll get The Hood. Good luck!



Fermat: Looks like they slipped a backdoor key into the access codes.


Brains: I'll follow your lead, son.


Lady penelope: Thunderbird 5) Thunderbird 5 come in.


(Using the video phone to talk with Thunderbird 5 come in.


Alan: How long have they got before re-entry?



Fermat: 90 seconds and counting



Fermat: I'm in!

Alan: Good job, Fermat.


Fermat: Okay, I just need someone on their end to confirm the access protocol.'


Brains: Thunderbird 5 come in.


Alan: Dad, come on are we coming through?



Brains: Mr. Tracy, can you hear me? Come in.



Lady penelope: Thunderbird 5 come in.


Alan: Dad, come on!


Brains: Mr. Tracy, can you hear me? Come in.



Alan: Dad!


Brains: Thunderbird 5 come in.


Alan: How long have they got?


Fermat: 45 seconds until re-entry.


Brains: Damn it, Jeff! Wake up!


Jeff: I think that's the first time you've ever called me by my first name, Brains. Thanks for waking me.


Alan: Dad!


Jeff: Alan! Well done.


Fermat: Mr. Tracy, confirm access protocol.



John: Confirmed. We are back online.


Brains: Gravity is restored. Put Thunderbird f-f- your craft into geostational orbit immediately.


Jeff: FAB, Brains.



Jeff: Looks like we're good to go.


Alan: Dad, are you all right?


Jeff: We're fine. We still have a job to do. Where's The Hood?

Brains: He's in Thunderbird 2 Mr. Tracy headed for L-L-L


Lady penelope: London.


Brains: She's right.


Alan: He's got the Mole on board.


John: Looks like Thunderbird 3 lost a booster, Dad. We'll never get there in time.



Alan: Let me go after The Hood. He'll destroy everything you've built everything the Thunderbirds stand

For.:


Jeff: Negative. I'm sorry it's too risky.



Alan: I can do this. You know I can. What am I saying? (Puts his arms around Tintin and Fermat) We

Can do this.:


Jeff: Okay, Alan. We'll meet you there. Thunderbirds are go!


Alan: FAB.


Jeff: boys, we are outta here.


Tintin: Are we really going?


Alan: Yep.


Tintin: Oh, boy!


Alan: You ready, Fermat?


Fermat: N-n- I guess!


(to his sons' on Thunderbird 5) Okay, Scene switches to Alan, Fermat, Tintin, and Lady Penelope in Thunderbird 1 with Alan and Fermat at

The controls.:



Fermat: Flight controls are green.

Female coputer voice: Anti-detection shield activated


Fermat: Hydraulic systems are good.


Alan: Right. Set primary fuel pumps. Main engine start.


Lady penelope: toys?

Complete.:


Lady penelope: And off we go!


(To Tintin) Don't boys just love their Scene switches to Thunderbird 2 entering London.


Bridge worker: Get the bridge up! Get the bridge up!



Scene switches back to Thunderbird 1.


Brains: Thunderbird 1 come in.


Alan: Roger, Brains.


Brains: Situation update, Thunderbird 3 is about to initiate separation.


Alan and fermat: FAB.


Lady penelope: Boys, Thunderbird 2 is in final approach to London.


Alan: I know The Hood's weakness, Fermat. I can stop him if we get there in time.



Fermat: Stand by. We're going to maximum thrust.



All: Whoaaaa!


Scene switches to Thunderbird 3 separating from Thunderbird 5



Jeff: Gordon, heat 'em up.


Thunderbird 2 lands in a park near the London Eye and causes panic.


Chuck: We're getting reports of some kind of incident in London involving the Thunderbirds. Lisa, are

You there?:


Lisa lowe: Chuck, I'm here in Jubilee Gardens where Thunderbird 2 has made an impromptu landing,

causing total panic in Central London. As far as we know there has been no emergency call from this

area so it's unclear why Thunderbird 2 would be active here at all. I don't know if you can see this Chuck

but Thunderbird 2 seems to be unloading some kind of machine.



Scene changes to inside the Mole with Transom, Mullion, and The Hood.


The hood: Set a course for the vault.


Transom: Sir, if we continue on our present course, we'll sever the monorail's subterranean supports.

Shall I correct our position?

The hood: Stay on course.


Transom: But sir, we'll cause a major disaster.



The hood: No, we won't. The Thunderbirds will.



The Mole severs the subterranean support leaving one monorail car stranded in the air. Scene then

switches to Thunderbird 1


Lady penelope: Let's get her down, boys.


Alan: Initiate landing, Fermat.


Fermat: Right.



Alan: Retros at 75 flaps to 16.


Fermat: FAB.



Fermat: You're going too fast.


Alan: Thanks. Retros to 90.


Thunderbird 1 lands.:


Lady penelope: Textbook, boys.


Scene switches to the Mole


Transom: Activating electromagnetic pulse to disable the bank's security systems.



Mullion: ETA, one minute.


Scene switches to Lady Penelope in Thunderbird 1 talking to Parker on her cell phone.


Lady penelope: Parker, meet me at the Bank of London.



Parker: Yes, milady.'


Alan, Tintin, and Fermat run to Thunderbird 2. Scene switches to Thunderbird 3 re-entering Earth's

Atmosphere.:


Jeff: Ride it out, boys!

Scene changes to Alan, Tintin, and Fermat in Thunderbird 2.



Alan: The Hood's getting away.


Tintin: Those people can't hold on much longer.



Fermat: What are we gonna do, Alan?


Alan: We're the Thunderbirds. Our duty is to save those people. Brains, we're going into the accident

Zone.:


Brains: FAB, Thunderbird 2 and good luck.


Alan: Brains, the monorail is down. Repeat, the monorail is down. I'm going underwater in

Thunderbird 4. You have the bridge. (turns on autopilot)


Fermat: Me?! Fly alone?!


Alan: Fermat, the Thunderbirds need you right now. I need you.


Fermat: FAB, Alan. (turns off autopilot)



Scene switches to Thunderbird 3 flying to London.


Jeff: Brains, come in, what's the situation?



Brains: The Hood has caused a disaster with the Mole mono-mono-mono- one-track railway is down in

The thames.:


Jeff: Where's Thunderbird 1?


Brains: It's on the ground. The k-k-kids are in Thunderbird 2.


Jeff: FAB. We're right behind 'em.


Scene changes to Mullion, Transom, and the Hood in the Bank of London.


Mullion: Look at all this gold!


The hood: Stay focused, Mullion. Nine more banks to go.


Scene changes to Alan in Thunderbird 4.


Alan: Fermat, deploying Thunderbird 4 in three, two, one, Thunderbird 4 is go. I can see the monorail.


People are panicking in the monorail and a little girl is crying for her mommy.

Alan: Don't panic, guys.



Alan: Fermat, I'll hold the monorail in place. Can you get a line on that stanchion and lift it up?


Fermat: I can't get a clear fix on the target. I might hit the passengers.


Tintin: I'll go and fix it myself.


Fermat: What you mean swim?!


Tintin: Get me as close as you can.


Alan: How are we doing on that line Fermat?



Fermat: Just look out your window.


Fermat: Come on, Tintin, come on!


Alan: Come on. Come on, Tintin. You can do this. (Tintin successfully connects the rope to the

stanchion and swims toward Thunderbird 4's airlock) Opening the airlock.



Alan: OK, Fermat, we need a lift.


Fermat: FAB, Alan. Commencing reverse thrust.



Alan: That was amazing, Tintin.


Tintin: Thank you.


Alan: Nice job, Fermat.


Fermat: Nothing to it, really.


Alan: monorail out of the water with Thunderbird 4) Easy does it.


(To Tintin who is helping him lift the Thunderbird 3 has landed and Jeff, Scott, John, Virgil, and Gordon are running over to the river bank

to look for Alan in Thunderbird 4.


Scott: There they are! (Everyone cheers)


Alan: of Thunderbird 4) Glad you could finally join us.

Jeff: Hey don't get cocky after one mission. We still have a dangerous situation. I need you boys to

(After he and Tintin have gotten out close down this accident scene. Tintin, go get Fermat. Meet us at Thunderbird 1. Alan, you come with

Me.:


Virgil: Okay let's clean it up guys.


Jeff: We got to get to the Bank of London fast.


Alan: Lady Penelope went after The Hood.



Jeff: I know, she may need help.


Scene changes to The Hood inspecting a diamond at the Bank of London.


The hood: Ashes to ashes, diamonds to diamonds. Lady Penelope. What an unpleasant surprise.



Lady penelope: Don't be rude. I can't tell you what a pleasure it would be to use my little finger to pull

this big trigger. Now, don't move!


The hood: Mullion. (uses his powers to knock the gun from Lady Penelope's hand)


Lady penelope: That's not cricket.


The hood: I'm sorry. The only part of sport I ever liked was winning.


Lady penelope: How ghastly.


Scene changes to Alan and Jeff in Thunderbird 1.


Alan: Hey, Dad. That stuff The Hood said, about you leaving him to die. He was lying, right?


Jeff: No. See, you can't save everyone, Alan. It doesn't matter how hard you try or how brave you are.

It doesn't even matter if it's someone you love, someone you'd give your life in a second to save. You

just can't save everyone.


Alan: What was Mom like?


Jeff: She was a lot like you. Come on, we've got a job to do.


Scene switches to Lady Penelope being handcuffed at the Bank of London.


The hood: Finish her off, Mullion.


Lady penelope: Shame on you. I always despise a man who delegates the important jobs. (sees the

look Mullion is giving her) Oh, dream on, sad act. (Mullion chuckles and walks away.)


Scene switches to Jeff, Alan, Tintin, and Fermat about to enter the Bank of London when Parker pulls

Up.:

Jeff: Good timing, Parker.


Parker: Good afternoon Mr. Tracy.


Jeff: Come with us.


Parker: My pleasure, Mr. Tracy.


Scene switches to The Hood talking to Mullion and Transom.


The hood: The Thunderbirds. They're here. Kill them all.


Scene switches to Jeff, Alan, Parker, Tintin, and Fermat inside the Bank of London.


Jeff: Alan, you guys stay here with Parker. I'm gonna go find Lady Penelope.


Alan: But what about The Hood? (Alan points behind Parker) Look out, Parker! (When Parker turns

away Alan runs after his dad.)


Parker: Master Tracy!


Fermat: Look out, Parker!


Parker: Alright, that's enough of that.


Mullion: motions for the kids to run forward but Transom

(from behind Parker) Don't move. (Parker blocks them. Parker puts his hands up as if to punch her)


Transom: Go on, then.


Parker: No, sorry. I can't hit a lady.


Tintin: Allow me. (she kick Transom and runs off, Transom chases her)


Mullion: my hands on you brats.


Parker: And I've been waiting to get my hands on you.


(To Fermat) I've been waiting to get They brawl for a few seconds before Mullion lands a good punch on Parker.


Parker: Ow, now that was a punch.


Fermat: Parker, can we wrap this up?


Parker: What did you have in mind, Master Hackenbacker?



Fermat: Strategically speaking, the best odds of success lie with the Parker Haymaker.


Parker: I concur. (they knock Mullion out)



Scene changes to Jeff running into the room that Lady Penelope is being held captive in


Jeff: Penny!


Penny: Jeff, no!


The hood: Did you save them all this time, Jeff? Or did you leave someone behind?


Jeff: I didn't make you what you are.


The hood: It's not me you have to convince. (motions his head toward the entrance of the room

where Alan is standing)


Jeff: Leave my son out of this- (the Hood uses his powers to throw Jeff into the cage that Lady

Penelope is handcuffed in)


Lady penelope: Jeff!


Alan: Dad! (Alan runs toward the closing cage door and reaches it right as it slams shut) Dad! Dad!


The hood: I'm disappointed in you, Alan. I thought we were kindred spirits.


Alan: Well, we're not. I'm Jeff Tracy's son.



The hood: You certainly are. (Alan runs at him)



Jeff: No!


Lady penelope: Alan no! (The Hood uses his powers to throw Alan off to the side where he slams

Into a wall):


Jeff: Alan!


The Hood looks dazed but then uses his powers to fly up to the catwalk above the Mole. The scene

then switches to Tintin being chased by Transom running into a cage.


Transom: Come here, you little minx! (Tintin jumps up on a bar and flips to the other side while

Transom runs into the wall) Ow!


Tintin:


(Closing the cage door) Bye-bye. Scene switches back to the room with The Hood, Alan, Jeff, and Lady Penelope.


Jeff: Alan, stay back.

The hood: You want so desperately to walk in Daddy's footsteps. (uses his powers to lift Alan off the

floor and makes him start choking himself with his own hands)



Jeff: Let him go.


The hood: Did you really think you could challenge me?


Jeff: Let him go, please.


Lady penelope: Let him go.


Jeff: Please! Let him go! (the Hood tightens his hold of Alan and then releases him)



Lady penelope: Alan! Are you all right?


Jeff: Alan, get out. Run!


Alan: He's getting weaker. He can't last much longer.


Jeff: Neither can you! (Alan begins to climb up the Mole to reach the Hood) Alan, no! Look out! (The

Hood starts the Mole with his powers and Alan has to jump and grab the railing of the catwalk) Alan!


The hood: I'm glad you could be here to see this, Jeff. (steps on one of Alan's hands until he cries in

pain and lets go)


The hood: Goodbye, Alan! (Steps on the other hand and Alan yells in pain) (Tintin runs into the room)


Tintin: No!


The hood: Ah, (uses his powers on her) (She uses her powers on him as well) Oh!


(The catwalk flips over making Alan safely on top and the Hood dangling above the still active Mole.


The hood: Leave me, Alan. Leave me to die. (releases one hand from the railing) Like your father did.


Alan: I don't want to save your life. (the Hood lets his other hand go, but Alan grabs it) But it's what we

Do.:


Scene switches to The Hood, Mullion, and Transom being led to a police car outside the Bank of

London when Thunderbirds 1,2, and 3 fly above them.


The hood: See you soon, Jeff.


Parker: car) Now, that was definitely showing off.


(To Lady Penelope as she climbs in the Scene changes to back at Tracy Island. Scott, Virgil, John, and Gordon are playing in the pool. Jeff is

grilling with Lady Penelope standing next to him. Fermat is getting swimming lessons from his dad

and Alan is watching.

Virgil: Hey, Scott.


Scott: Get him!


Lady penelope: margaritas?


Jeff: It's a Tracy secret.


Brains: week and you're gonna be swimming like a F-f-f-D-d-d-

Sha-sha- sha-aquatic creature.:


Alan: Good job, Ferm.


Tintin: do you think?


Alan: (To Jeff) What did you put in these (To Fermat) That's my boy! One more (To Alan as she spins around) So, what He's getting there. (Looks at Tintin) Whoa, Tintin! You're just really, um, blossoming.


Tintin: Ew! Did you say "blossoming"? (smiles at him)


Jeff: I have an announcement to make. Tonight is a special

(rings a triangle) Gather around everybody. night. We're all together because of three very special people. Fermat, Tintin, Alan. The world needs

Thunderbirds and the Thunderbirds need you. (gives each of them International Rescue pins)


Fermat: Mr. Tracy!


Tintin: Thank you, sir. (Camera pans quickly over to Parker who is tearing up)



Jeff: Congratulations, Alan. No short cuts. You earned it. You all did.


Parker: an emotional man, but sometimes even the toughest

Nut must crack.:


Virgil: over to ruffle his hair and congratulate him) Hey, way to go,

Sprout!:


John: That's my boy, Alan! That's my brother. pool by Scott,

(To Onaha and Kyrano) I'm not usually (As all four of Alan's brothers walk (Fermat and Alan are thrown into the John, Virgil, and Gordon who jump in after them)


Jeff: (answering his phone after it rings) Yes, Madam President. I see. Of course, straightaway. Boys.

Sorry, Penny. Duty calls.


Lady penelope: Of course it does. And quite right too.



Scene switches to all five Tracy boys lined up in their uniforms about to go on a rescue mission. The

older four are looking at Alan.


Jeff: Thunderbirds are go!

Scene switches to Lady Penelope and Parker in a pink pedal boat



Lady penelope: Fast as you can, Parker.


Parker: Certainly, milady.


Credits Roll with music by Busted playing in the background



Busted: Thunderbirds Are Go


Spring breaks come around and there's more heroes to be found.


There's something major going down on Tracy island, island.


Weapons underground keeping our planet safe and sound

If someone evils coming round they should be frightened (frightened)


Cause now the boys are back in town. No strings to hold them down down.

(chorus):

Don't be mad please, stop the hating just be glad that they'll be waiting,

Friends we have aren't ever changing

You know the lid's about to blow, when the thunderbirds are go.


Kids are learning fast they know the t-birds kick some ass

Be sure that there's no coming last cause you're on their side (their side)


It always looks so cool when spaceships come out of the pool


You know that you'd just be a fool to be a bad guy (bad guy)


Cause now the boys are back in town no strings to hold them down down.


(chorus):

Don't be mad please, stop the hating just be glad that they'll be waiting,

Friends we have aren't ever changing

You know the lid's about to blow, when the thunderbirds are go.


Thunderbirds are go,:


(chorus):

Don't be mad please stop the hating just be glad that they'll be waiting,

Friends we have aren't ever changing.

You know the lid's about to blow, when the thunderbirds are go.



Thunderbirds are, Thunderbirds are go


Thunderbirds are, Thunderbirds are go


Thunderbirds are, Thunderbirds are go


Thunderbirds are, Thunderbirds are go.


