

Walking tall:

Written by:

Mort Briskin & David Klass


Transcribed by imsdb:



INTRO

Inspired by a true story.

We home in on a boat coming in to shore. Off walks a man, he is carrying a backpack and wearing shades.


EXT. TOWN

He walks through a town, passing various stores and the general bustle of the people there. He notices a baby in a pram left out on the sidewalk, then sees the mother is in an alleyway doing what looks like a drug deal.

EXT. LUMBER YARD

Chris reads a closure notice on the door. A police car rolls up.

Sheriff watkins: How ya doin'?

Chris: Ok. When'd the mill close?

Sheriff watkins: Ahh 3 years this August. If ya lookin for work you might wanna try Aberdeen, that's the closest mill work you're gonna find around here.

Chris: That's too bad.

Sheriff watkins: Nah just simple economics. Y'know we have a really nice casino here, the wild cherry. You wanna make some money maybe you wanna go on down there and try your luck at the blackjack tables.


Chris: Nah I don't think so. Thanks.

Chris turns around and the sheriff notices his name on a bag.


Sheriff watkins: You're Chris Vaughn?

The sheriff chuckles and steps out of the car.

Sheriff watkins: Well hell, I know all about you Chris. I know your folks, I'm sheriff Stan Watkins.

They shake hands.:

Chris: How ya doin.

Sheriff watkins: Ralston get outta the car, you're lookin at a real soldier here pay some respect.


Ralston: Welcome home soldier.

Chris: Thanks.

Sheriff watkins: Here Chris, (opens the back door) We'll give ya a ride up to your folks.

Chris: Nah I'm fine thank you.

Sheriff watkins: I insist.

Chris: I'll walk.

Sheriff watkins: Hey it's my pleasure.

Chris: It's ok.

Sheriff watkins: I won't take no for an answer (jokingly reaches for his gun). HEY! Get in the car.

Chris raises his hands and the sheriff chuckles.

Sheriff watkins: Did I scare ya with that one?

Chris: Lil bit.

Sheriff watkins: Ya. Let's go.


INT. POLICE CAR

Sheriff watkins: You were gone a while huh?

Chris: 8 years. Harstad was sheriff back then.


Sheriff watkins: Harstad, yeah. Sad story. About 5 months back he fell asleep at the wheel and uhhh... hit a tree. Good man, good man and a good sheriff.


EXT. THE FAMILY HOME

Chris: Thanks for the ride.

Sheriff watkins: No problem, and uh Chris (hands him a piece of paper). It's election month... I'm your man.

Chris takes the paper and smiles. He walks up the lane toward the house, a simple white building clad in wood. A lady dressed in a police uniform comes out.

Michelle: Can I help you?

Chris laughs.:

Michelle: Lil' brother.. You come over here and gimme a hug.

They laugh together.:

Michelle: You look great.

Chris: What is this?

Michelle: Hey, I couldn't let you be the only one looking good in uniform. Hey ma! Chris is here!

Chris: What's with the tent? (points to a tent set up on the lawn).

Michelle: Oh, that's for Pete.

Connie: Look at you!

Chris: How ya doin!

Chris hugs his mother, Connie. A man slowly emerges from the front door.

Connie: How long do we have ya for?

Chris: For good. I'm home.

Connie: Really? You're not kiddin.

Chris: No.

They hug again.:

Chris: Hey dad.

Dad: Welcome back.


INT. KITCHEN

The family are eating takeaway.

Connie: I wish you would have told me you were coming I would've cooked.

Chris: This is great.

Michelle: So what are you gonna do now that you're home?

Chris: Well I was planning on working at the mill, your letters never mentioned that it was closed.

Connie: We didn't wanna bother you with our problems when your father got laid off.


Dad: I got my business, you saw the furniture outside.

Connie: I substitute at the elementary school, Michelle pitches in. We try to keep things simple.

A kid walks in.

Michelle: Pete! This is your Uncle Chris.

Chris: Hey Pete.

Michelle: Sit down, say hello. Last time he saw you you were barely walking.

Pete: And now I'm camping.

Michelle: I said you could sleep on the couch. It was Chris' room first.

Chris: Your tent's gonna take on water. I could show ya how to rig it.

Pete: Doesn't look like it's gonna rain to me Colonel.

Michelle: Pete, cmon sit down, have somethin to eat.

Chris: First of all I was a sergeant. I worked for a living.

Pete: Did you ever smoke anybody?

Connie: Pete!

Michelle: Pete!

Pete: Y'know, Papa's still got your gun locked up in the garage. Think you could teach me how to shoot?

Chris: I figured that'd be scrap metal by now dad.

Dad: No, I'm still hoping that you'll melt that thing down on your own.

Chris: Sorry Pete.

Pete: Whatever. I'm outta here Mom.

Michelle: Okay, be back by ten.

Pete: Ten thirty (as he walks out)

Michelle: Ten!

Dad: Remind you of anyone?


INT. BEDROOM

We can see from the window that it's raining heavily outside. Chris sets about unpacking his things. Pete comes in looking wet.

Pete: Ok it rained. Happy?

Chris: No. Why dontcha crash on the floor?


Pete looks at him.

Chris: Ok, I'll crash on the floor, you crash on the bed.

Pete: uh uh. (starts walking out)

Chris: Pete. (hands him a towel). Keep ya dry.


Pete: Did you really kill people?

Chris looks at him.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

A crappy camper van rolls up. A man steps out.

Chris: Ray Ray! Ahaaa.

Ray: Hello puddin'.

They hug.:

Chris: How ya doin?

Ray: I'm alright.

Chris: What is that? (points to the van)

Ray: That's the lovemachine.

Chris: Girls actually get in there?

Ray shrugs.:

Chris: How ya been?

Ray: Good. Clean livin.

Chris: Wanna beer?

Ray: No. Believe it or not I quit drinkin. I'll take a soda though.

Chris: Here.

Ray: Thanks man.

Chris: Whoah. (spots a tattoo of a guitar on Ray's arm).

Ray: Ya like that? When you left town it gave me the idea that I should do something with my life too so uhh I went down to Seattle, got a guitar and became all about music. And then pretty soon I was about music and drugs, n pretty soon I was basically just about drugs. Ended up doin 2 years for B+E.

Chris: I'm sorry.

Ray: Nahh, look at me now though right? I been clean and sober for 14 months, doing construction and renewing those supportive and healthy friendships from my past. Matter of fact I talked to the bastards, told em you were back and they asked me to politely remind you that kick off's in twenty minutes.



EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD

A group of guys are there waiting, one of them holding a ball. They salute as Chris walks up. They all laugh.

Chris: Playin ball?

All: Let's play ball!

Jimmy: Ray go deep go deep! (as Ray runs off he throws the ball into Ray's back).


Chris: FIELD') When did that happen?

Jimmy: His parents hadn't left him the mill more than 2 minutes before he shut it down.

Chris: Why?

(Spotting a sign that reads 'HAMILTON a voice shouts 'HEADS UP' Chris catches a fast ball thrown from behind. Jay steps out of his vehicle.

Jay: Cause I opened my Casino.

Chris: Still got a gut huh Jay?

Jay: Still got your reflexes. What, you get tired of being all that you can be?


Chris: I'm still all I can be.

Jay: Really? I'll just have to see about that. What brings you home?

Chris: I just wanna relax, catch my breath.


Jay: You? Relax?

Another truck with a few guys on it pulls up

Jay: Not today.

A football game ensues, there are two teams. Jay's guys vs Chris' guys. On the sidelines Pete pulls up on a small motorcycle. Chris notices Pete hanging around with kids smoking. It comes down to the last play, the teams are huddled into two groups talking.


Ray: If we score here we win right?

Chris: Alright boys, last play. We need to put this to rest.

Ray: Just give me the ball.

Chris: You got it. On the first hut!

Jay: Ok Vaughn, last chance.

Chris gets the ball and throws it. An opponent comes in hard and tackles him low. He collapses. Ray runs for the ball but gets clotheslined by Jay.

Jay: That's game!

Opponent:

Chris: That's cool man.

(to Chris) Sorry about that. Chris Helps Ray onto his feet.

Jay: Welcome home.

Chris: Good to be back.

Jay: See ya round. Hey, if you're not doing anythin later on you could come by the casino. I'll introduce ya to some nice girls, drinks are on me. Whaddya say?


Chris: See ya tonight.

Jay: Cool.

Jay speeds off in his car. Pete rolls up on his bike.

Pete: Hey Sarge, good game. Maybe next time.


Chris: Hold up. Maybe next time I won't see you with the bleachers smoking weed.


Ray: Welcome home buddy.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE WILD CHERRY CASINO

Chris: Don't you have to be native american to own a casino?

Jimmy: Oh Hamilton's one sixteenth black man now.

Friend 2: Just so you guys know, I'm gonna triple my money tonight.

Friend 3: Yea, like last time. Wound up selling your body for bus fare.

Friend 4: He had to walk!

They all laugh.:

Chris: Nobody's gonna have any problems finding this place.

Ray: It's the subtle attention to aesthetics that I find most impressive, blends in with the mountains SO nicely.


INT. WILD CHERRY CASINO

The place is packed with gambling tables and attractive women.


Friend: Not bad huh?

Chris: Not bad.

Ray: Isn't it wonderful? All your gambling needs under one great big roof. You got your ATM machine, tellers to cash your paycheck, and when you're here you don't gotta worry about those lil things like child support, rent, the laws of mathematical probability.


Worker: Gentlemen, Mr Hamilton would like to invite you to the VIP lounge.

Ray: Oh, 'Mister' Hamilton.


INT. VIP LOUNGE

Jay: Heyyy, the dream team!

Chris: Nice place.

Jay: Yeah well. Welcome to my world. Look tonight, all the drinks are on the house. If you need a line of credit, say how much. And if you need a lil female companionship... done. Alright? Have a good time.

Chris: Where you goin?

Jay: Don't you worry about me, I've got a few things to do. Enjoy.

Ray: Just remember, nothin in here's free. C'mon, this place is nothin but fake boobs and real assholes if ya ask me. Just water for me.

Friends: Here's to you Chris.

They all down some drinks. They lead Chris down a corridor.


Friend: Don't say we never did nothin' for ya!


Friend 2: Don't worry, everybody's a lil scared the first time. Get in there, sit back and enjoy.

Chris' friends have led him to a stripping booth, his friend inserts the money.

Friend 2: If you're not back by morning we'll send a search party for you.

Chris: Bye! No drinking.

His friends leave, closing the door behind them.

A screen goes up and a striptease begins. The lady is dressed in the style of a firewoman and has a pole in the center of the stage. She dances around the pole and removes clothes.

Stripper: So you from here or just visiting.


Chris: Lil of both, I grew up here.

Stripper: So you've seen all the old faces.

Chris: Could say that.

Stripper: Your voice sounds very familiar.

The lights come on.

Stripper: Chris...

Chris: Deni..

The screen goes down again, Chris leaves the booth.


INT. CASINO

Friend 1: Look who's back.

Friend 2: So, good surprise?

Friend 1: Told you it was better than gambling. You met Candy? (A girl is dancing on their table)

Chris: Hey Candy. (to the guys) Let's go.



INT. CRAPS TABLE

Croupier: 6! Easy 6 for a win!

Jimmy:

Jimmy: I need you to put 200 down for the bet.


Chris: No, hell no.

Friend 3: Look at them (Nods to girls).

Chris: Ok.

Croupier: Five hundred on 6?

Jimmy: Yes, I'm in. Boom! Gimme some dice.


(To some girls) We can do a 6. (To Chris) We're gettin killed out here. Chris notices something odd, he looks concerned.

Croupier: Lookin' for a 6.

Chris: Jimmy. Don't roll. Gimme the dice.


Croupier: Lookin' for a 6. Ohhhhh.

The dice have landed and it's a 7. Jimmy hangs his head.

Chris: saw it.

Croupier: Saw what?

Chris: I saw the switch.

Croupier: Hey this is a clean game asshole.

Chris: Yea?

Croupier: Yea.

Chris: Let's see about that.

(To the croupier) You're good, but I Chris puts a load of money on the table.

Chris: Bet you I'll roll a seven.

Croupier: It's not your roll sir. SIR! It's not your roll. Call security.

Chris has taken the dice.

Chris: Put your bets down on the pass line. These dice are comin up seven.

Jimmy: Chris, why don't we just let it go?


Chris: No, we gonna let it ride Jimmy. The dice are comin up seven.

Croupier: It's not your roll sir.

Chris rolls the dice and sure enough it's a seven.

Commissioner: No folks, no payout.

Chris: care of that bet and we're even.

Croupier: Well I would but it wasn't a legitimate bet, you're not the shooter. It's not your (Chris shoves him) ROLL sir.


Security guy: Is there a problem?

Chris: Yea, the problem is your dice are loaded. Does your boss know about this? Just gimme my money.

(To croupier) Why don't you just take The security guy grabs Chris around the neck. Chris elbows him and throws him onto the table. The croupier takes a fighting stance. Jimmy taps Chris on the shoulder.

Jimmy: Come on, let's go! let's go!

More security men appear, one of them knocks Jimmy out. A whole fight breaks out, Ray gets knocked out. Chris beats off several security men before taking an electric shock to the neck and a baton to the face. Chris wakes up on a table under a light.


Bad guy 1: forces? I'll take that.

(Sees the tag around Chris' neck) Special Chris grabs him by the neck but they beat him down again.

Bad guy 2: What are you doin?

Bad guy 1: forces... special treatment.

(Has a scalpel in his hand) Special He rips open Chris' shirt.

Bad guy 2: This guy knows Hamilton!

A struggle ensues and Chris' chest is cut up.


EXT. A BRIDGE

We see Chris is crawling, badly hurt. A truck stops directly in front of him. Chris passes out again.


INT. HOSPITAL

Dochris: banged up, inside and out. Whoever did this left him for dead. A lesser man wouldn't have survived.

Sheriff watkins: I'm gonna need a statement from him Doctor.

Dochris: He's in no condition to give you one.


Sheriff watkins: I'll also need a copy of your write-up along with toxicoloy, blood alcohol level and so on.

Michelle: What are you talkin about Stan?

Sheriff watkins: I'm just tryin to get some facts here.


Michelle: Oh come on you need to be out arresting whoever tried to kill my brother not testing his BLOOD.

Sheriff watkins: I'm just doing my job Michelle. Ok? I understand how you feel. But we still don't know yet who started all of this.


Connie: Well it wasn't Chris.

Dad: Just find out who did this to him Stan.


Sheriff watkins: I'll do my best Mr Vaughn. I really will. In the meantime I have to file a full report. You lemme know when I can talk to him.

The doctor nods.:

Sheriff watkins: Thank you.

Dochris: He's gonna be fine Michelle.

Michelle: Thanks.


INT. HOSPITAL WARD

(To Chris' family) Folks, he's pretty Ray goes into a room and takes a big bunch of flowers from there.


Nurse: BEAUTIFUL flowers!

Ray: Thank you, they're for my best friend.



INT. CHRIS HOSPITAL BED

Ray: Hey sarge, so much for our VIP... status. Don't they teach you any fighting skills in the army.

Chris: How did you do?

Ray: Not good. But I tell you, that guy was feelin me this morning.

Chris begins to laugh but is in pain.

Ray: You okay?

Chris: Some homecoming hey.

Ray: I don't know if you've noticed but this aint exactly home any more.


EXT. FAMILY HOUSE

Chris has returned home. He's still in bad shape and his parents help him out of the car. He insists on taking the steps by himself.


Pete: There's some old crutches in the garage.


Chris laughs.:


INT. LOUNGE

A montage ensues with Chris on the couch, sometimes with Ray, other times with Pete. Chris is recovering, and is exercising by the end of it.


INT. GARAGE

Chris pulls the cover off an old truck. He smiles and gets in. He starts the engine.

Dad: Changed the plugs a while back.

Chris: Appreciate that Dad.

Dad: I might've had serious issues with your career choice but just didn't seem fair to take it out on an innocent truck. Where you headin?

Chris: I was goin into town to get some supplies. Wanna come?

Dad: Let's go.


INT. CAR

Dad: Ya whole life, all you wanted to do was get outta here. What made you come back.

Chris: You gonna think I'm crazy. I been thinking about the mill. When I was a kid goin to visit you at work, the smell of that fresh-cut cedar. You remember that smell.


Dad: Mmm I remember a lotta nice things before the mill closed.

Chris: When did they go outta business? (Nods to a closed supply store).

Dad: Closed about six months ago. There's a home depot about fifteen minutes up the road.

Chris: And that? (Nods to an adult XXX shop)


Dad: Don't ask.

They laugh.:


EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

Jay pulls up in his car.

Jay: Hey. First of all I wanna say thanks.


Chris: For what?

Jay: He's been fired, and his gaming permit's been pulled. I don't know how my security cameras didn't catch that.

Jay starts to help Chris taking wood off the truck but Chris throws it back on.

Chris: They miss a lot at your place don't they Jay.

Jay: Look Chris I hate seein ya like this.


Chris: Your boys did it.

Jay: Wait wait... so they got a little rough, they were a bit edgy. Understandably. You don't know what kind of assholes they have to put up with on a daily basis. Look, they've been reprimanded. They say you went nuts man. I'm sorry. I know the proper term vets use is post traumatic stress.

Chris: What the fuck are you talking about?


Jay: Whatever it was, you tore my place apart and it wasn't easy for me to get my guys agree not to press charges. Look Chris, if you had a problem... shouldn't you have come to me? Look, I wanna bring you inside. Chris I wanna make you head of security. Whaddya say?

Chris: No.

Jay: Ah well. I guess you probably need time to think about it. This is for you. It's a little something to help you get... Y'know..

He puts down an envelope with money in it. Chris gives it back to him.

Jay: Come on man, don't be like that. I came all the way out here to your house just to see you get back on your feet.


Chris: I'm goin to the sheriff.

Jay: I'm sorry you feel that way. I'll see ya round Chris.


INT. POLICE STATION

Chris: Excuse me.

An officer is on the phone ignoring him.

Chris: Excuse me.

The sheriff comes out.

Sheriff watkins: Well hey Chris. Good to see you up and about, you're lookin spiffy.

Chris: I'm here to press charges.

Sheriff watkins: Well this isn't about that incident at the casino a while back is it?


Chris: Yea, it is.

Sheriff watkins: Cause that matter's closed.

Chris: Did you look into it?

Sheriff watkins: They did an internal investigation. That's good enough for me.

Chris: An internal investigation.

Sheriff watkins: Chris, I know you're familiar with the term 'no fly zone'. Hmm? Cause that's what the casino is. Since the mill closed down that casino is the main source of revenue in this town. So, case closed basically. I'll see ya.

Chris: I'm not gonna let this stand.

Sheriff watkins: Excuse me? What did you say to me?


Chris: I said I'm not gonna let this stand.


Sheriff watkins: You're lucky to be alive right now, that's all you need to be concentrating on. This is my town ok, I'm the sheriff here. I'll tell you what will stand, not the other way around. Now please get out of my building.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Deni is at the door.

Deni: Hey.

Chris: Hey.

Deni: This belongs to you.

She hands him a leather jacket.

Chris: I appreciate that, I thought this was history.

Deni: Coulda left it in the trash but I...


Connie: Deni? Nice to see you dear.

Deni: Hi Mrs Vaughn.

Chris: Can I talk to you outside for a second. Mom I'll be right back.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

Deni: How you been?

Chris: Been better.

Deni: Talked to the sheriff yet?

Chris: Well I went down to the police station and I talked to somebody with a badge. Sure as hell didn't seem like much of a sheriff.

Deni: He's up for re-election you know. Maybe you could take his job.

Chris: Somebody ought to. How about you?

Deni: Sunshine and pine trees. Been readin these books, teach you how to cultivate happiness. Books on the future, go with the flow, that sorta thing.

Chris: Is it workin?

Deni: I have my moments.

Chris: So the casino huh?

Deni: Yep. Been there almost a year.

Chris: Treatin you good?

Deni: Lot better than it treated you.

Chris: I like that. Jay Hamilton's done well for himself hasn't he.

Deni: Yea, he's a real go-getter that one.


Chris: Must be. I heard he got you.

Deni: Lasted about 8 minutes, a long long time ago.

Chris: You still work for him though.

Deni: Rent's gotta be paid Chris.

Chris: Suppose so.

Deni: Hope to see you around.

Chris: Do you?

She begins to drive off.

Chris: Thanks for the jacket.

She toots the horn as she goes.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Connie is on the phone.

Connie: And where is he?


EXT. OUTSIDE SOME GARAGE

The Vaughn's truck pulls up at speed. They enter a garage, Pete is on a stretcher.

Michelle: It's ok mom he's stabilised. (To Chris) It was close. Crystal Meth.

Pete: I'm sorry. I never did it before.

Kid: It's true. We mighta kinda pushed him into it.

Chris approaches the kid.

Chris: Where'd you get the drugs?

Kid: I'm not really sure...

Chris: Stop. Where?

Kid: From the security guys workin at the casino.

Chris gets into his truck.

Connie: Chris, wait. Call the police.

Chris: No, that won't do any good.

Chris speeds off. He pulls up at their home and enters the garage.


Dad: Is Pete ok?

Chris: He'll be fine.

Chris is searching about and forces open a cupboard.

Dad: What are you doin?

Chris pulls out a shotgun and loads it.

Dad: Aw Chris not like this. Chris listen to me. If you go outta here with that gun, they're gonna.. ne... Chris!


Chris drives to the casino, he cocks the shotgun but decides to leave it in the truck. Instead he takes a piece of wood from the back of his truck. He enters the casino with it. He smashes a fruit machine. A guard comes up and Chris beats him. A fight scene breaks out with Chris beating the guards and generally trashing the place. He takes back his special forces dogtag from the guard who stole it. Chris hurls his piece of wood at the VIP lounge window, smashing it to pieces. Jay emerges from behind it.

Jay: Guess that changes our relationship a bit huh?

Chris leaves. As he drives off in his truck, police cars appear with sirens going. He pulls over.

Sheriff watkins: You should NOT have come looking for trouble. Keep your hands up, get out of the vehicle now Chris! NOW!


INT. POLICE STATION ROOM

Lawyer: I advise you to give this offer more than a little serious thought. If you go to trial you stand to do 18 years. This is a sweet plea, normally they wouldn't even put it on the table but your military record can't be ignored. Three months home arrest, some community service. Pretty generous offer Chris.


Chris: But I'd have to plead guilty.

Lawyer: Look at it from the other side. There's over a dozen witnesses, none of em are gonna paint a very flattering picture.


We see a montage of casino workers badmouthing Chris.

Worker: He started bustin up the machines...


Girl: There was a gunshot..

Worker: Went crazy...

Girl: Complete psychopath.

Chris: They're only offering me this deal just to keep me quiet.

Lawyer: Well I still say you should take it.


Chris: I wasn't wrong. And I won't say I was.



INT. COURTROOM

Casino guard: Our job is to keep order. But there was no chance of that. Me and my men we were just tryin to control him. He was highly trained, violent, very dangerous person.

Prosecutor: So dangerous, so violent, so highly trained that he despatched six of the casino staff single handedly. His weapon of choice a simple piece of cedar. Which in his hand became a devastating force with one aim, to hurt people, destroy property.

Worker: He went directly for everything. He just came in and took over the place.


Prosecutor: You said he broke your arm.

Worker: Yea that's correct, my right forearm. Both bones with a single shot. It was crazy.

Casino guard 2: You know, toss out a coupla drunks now and then. Guys try to grope the girls, but ah nothing with this sort of violence.


Prosecutor: Did he give you any kind of advanced warning? A chance to defend yourself.


Casino guard 2: We tussled, but he's a big guy. He was on a mission. Besides, he seemed to be too busy enjoying himself from what I could see.

Prosecutor: So from what you saw, it seemed like he had some kinda purpose?

Casino guard 2: I think he had a point to prove yeah.


Worker: I was emptyin machines when Mr Vaugh came in and started swingin.

Girl: I was tryin to get outta there.

Judge: Mr Crow, you may present your client's case.

Chris:

Chris: Your honor, I'd like to plead my own case.

Judge: Order, order. Mr Vaughn, if you choose to represent yourself and not be represented by legal counsel you realise that you can't then claim a mistrial on that basis.

Chris: Yes I do.

Judge: Very well Mr Vaughn.

Chris: I don't deny anything that was said here today.

Judge: Does that mean you're changing your plea to guilty?

Chris: I'm not guilty of anything. Except standing up for myself when the law wouldn't.


Opposition: Objection. He's trying to introduce prior events your honor.

Judge: Sustained. Mr Vaughn stay on point.


Chris: I grew up in this town. People used to walk tall in this town, they wouldn't have traded the mill for a crooked casino.


Judge: Mr Vaughn we're not here to listen to civic speeches.

Chris: And they wouldn't have stood around while drugs were being sold to kids.


Opposition: Objection.

Judge: Sustained. Mr Vaughn you're close to being held in contempt.

Chris: I was justified in what I did, and if you acquit me of these charges I'm gonna run for sheriff. And if elected, I'm gonna fix this town.

Judge: Order, order. Mr Vaughn you are now charged with contempt.

Chris: And I will make sure that THIS (He opens his shirt revealing huge scarring) never happens to anyone again without punishing those who did it.

Judge: I order the jury to ignore what they have just seen. Mr Vaughn take your seat. Order! Order!

Judge: Mr Forman, has the jury reached a verdict?


Forman: We have your honor.

Judge: Will the defendant please rise.

Forman: We find the defendant Chris Vaughn not guilty.

(To his lawyer) You're fired. The crowd breaks into cheer. Chris takes a tag from his piece of cedar wood which is laying on the evidence table.

Chris: This is mine.


The crowds fade away with chants of 'Sheriff Vaughn'.


EXT. POLICE STATION

Chris pulls up to the station in his police truck, it's clear he's now the sheriff.

Watkins: Sheriff.

Chris: Watkins.

Watkins: Well you won the election, congratulations. We do have a tradition of professional courtesy up here, and I can personally vouch for each and every one of these men. They're good deputies.

Chris: You're all fired.


INT. POLICE STATION

Chris takes a look around.


EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD

Jay is speeding along in a sportscar. He is pulled over by a police truck.

Jay: Hey Chris.

Chris: License and registration please.

Jay: You're joking right?

Chris: License and registration.

Jay hands it over.

Jay: What's the problem sheriff?

Chris: You. And the drugs you're pedalling out of your casino.

Jay: Oh. Only thing that's going on in my casino right now is reconstruction. You took care of that.

Chris: Yea that's right and I plan on taking care of everything else too.

Jay: If you can, try to think this through. A casino is a license to print money. Why would I jeopardise that by selling drugs?

Chris: Cause you owned the town Jay. It's changed now.

Jay: Really? See the only thing that I think has changed around here is that every morning you get to wake up and put on that nifty lil badge. But underneath that badge is the same guy that couldn't make it playing college football, apparently couldn't make it in the army and not gonna make it as a cop.

Chris: Is that right?

Jay: Yea, and if you push too hard you're gonna be a man who doesn't live to see 40. License please.

Chris hands it over.

Jay: Thanks sheriff.

Chris: Sir get your tail lights fixed, it's your last warning.

Jay: What's wrong with my tail lights?

Chris smashes up the back end of Jay's car with his trusty piece of cedar wood.

Chris: They're broken.


EXT. RAY'S PLACE

Ray: Mornin sheriff.

Chris: Mornin deputy.

Chris tosses Ray a badge.

Ray: No, nope, no. Come on man you know I hate cops. You been sheriff 2 minutes and I'm already startin to hate you. I'm a convicted felon.

Chris: I got a lil pull around here.

Ray: Oh now you're a CROOKED cop doing favours for friends. That's how it starts. See next thing you know you'll be taking bribes, setting up roadblocks, frisking dudes crotches.

Chris: Are you done? Ray I need your help.


Ray: Oh don't do that.

Chris: I need you to take me to drugs school.


Ray: I get to wear a uniform?

A montage ensues, with Chris and Ray busting various drug dealers.



EXT. DEALER'S HOUSE

Chris: You're SURE you're not carrying anything.


Booth: I don't have shit.

Chris: Officer.

Ray: Yeah.

Chris: Search him.

Ray: Oh. Spread your legs, arms down. Been workin out? Nothin there. Ohhhh somebody needs a BATH!

Booth: Now you read me my rights and take me in. And I call my lawyer.

Ray: K. I have a hunch there may be somethin else in here (Pats the dealer's truck).


Chris: Could be.

Music plays while the two chop up the dealer's car into pieces while laughing.

Ray: He's clean. Guess we gotta move to plan B.

Booth: Screw you, I do have a bit of information for you. It's not just me actually, there's a whole lotta people in on this one.

Chris: Spit it out.

Booth: You're gonna get hurt.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Chris is in the room with a shotgun.

Dad: Why does it always have to be your fight?


Chris: You might need this.

Dad: No. I put my guns down a long time ago.


Chris: You're just being stubborn.

Dad: You and me both boy. Chris, listen. You be careful.

Chris: I will.


INT. POLICE STATION

Booth is locked up, Ray is taunting him through a loudspeaker.


Ray: Please step away from the vehicle. Now Mr Booth are you still upset over that body cavity search? WOOOOOOOO! I forgot, you got no vehicle. Please disperse, there is nothing to s...

Chris has walked in.

Chris: Can I talk to you?

Ray: Yeah.

Chris: Over here?

Ray: Sure.

Chris: I'm gonna stay with him tonight. I need you to take care of my parent's place.


Ray: You think they're gonna take it that far?

Chris hands him the shotgun.

Ray: I'm with you man, I'll check in later.


Chris: Kay.


Night time:

Deni comes into the police station.

Deni: Don't shoot.

Chris: Hey

Deni: Hi. How's the food around here? Brought you special treats. Salmon, Fried Chicken, Potato Salad. You got cups?

Chris: Don't you have to work tonight?

Deni: Hmm I quit. I figured you know, you were making some changes around here, I could make a few myself.

Chris grabs her and they kiss.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray is on the couch and has just woken to a noise.

Ray: Who's that?

Pete: It's Pete. Want something to eat?

Ray: No I'm good man.


INT. POLICE STATION

Chris: I gotta get a bigger bed.

Deni: No, no you don't.


EXT. WILD CHERRY CASINO

Jay calls a number on his celphone.

Jay: Do it.


INT. POLICE STATION

Deni: I'm hungry.

Chris: Got leftovers...

Deni: Mm mmm, I want pancakes, and eggs, and bacon.

A loud explosion happens, it's Chris' police truck outside.


Booth: WOOOOOOOOOOOO! I told you Vaughn! Uh ohhhh. Who needs to step away from the vehicle now Vaughn? Truck for truck baby, that's right, truck for a truck.


Chris steps towards the front of the building but men outside open fire, Chris ducks for cover.

Chris:


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray: Pete, somethin's burnin.


INT. POLICE STATION

(To Deni) Get down! Men with machine guns are still firing at the police station. Deni's screaming, Booth is cheering.

Chris: Take that and get in there.

Chris gives Deni a pistol.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray: Pete?

Ray steps into the kitchen but gunmen have infiltrated the home. A fight breaks out and Pete flees. Ray jumps onto the back of a gunman.


INT. POLICE STATION

Chris shoots up the floor with a shotgun and breaks a hole in it.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray stabs the gunman with a potato peeler and knocks him out with a frying pan.


INT. POLICE STATION

Chris:

(To Deni) Come here. They get down into the hole in the floor.

Chris: When I say 'now' start shooting, over there. Stay low.

Booth is now under fire and is scared.

Booth: Vaughn you gotta get me outta here!



INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Two other gunmen in stocking masks are holding the family hostage upstairs.

Dad: I know who you are.

Gunman: Oh yeah?

The gunman takes off his mask and hits him with a pistol.

Gunman:

Gunman 2: Check it out.

(Calling downstairs) Burke? He goes downstairs to find Burke dead on the kitchen floor. He follows traces of blood across the floor.


INT. POLICE STATION

Chris is making his way towards Booth under fire.

Booth: C'mon! Get me outta here man!

Chris: What's it worth to you? Where's the lab?

Booth: Screw you!

Gunshots hit near booth.

Booth: Ok! Ok! Hamilton's operation is at the mill ok! It's at the mill now get me outta here.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

The gunman enters a room, Ray is there pointing a shotgun at him.

Ray: Drop it!


INT. POLICE STATION

Chris: Stay down!

Booth is standing and gets shot dead.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray shoots the gunman, who falls to the floor.

Upstairs:

Michelle: Ray!

Gunman 2: Stay down!


INT. POLICE STATION

Booth is dead so Chris leaves him there.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray: you okay?

Upstairs:

(To gunman's body on the floor) Hey.. Gunman 2 looks away for a second and Michelle kicks him down the stairs. As he tumbles down Ray reloads his shotgun. The two begin firing at each other, taking cover behind the furniture.



INT. POLICE STATION

Watkins: Tried to warn ya Chris. Didn't want this to happen.

One of the men outside has a canister. Watkins gives him the nod and he begins walking towards the station. Chris is beneath the floor and shoots him in the legs. The two remaining men outside open fire again. Another gunman tries to approach but he's shot in the legs as well. Watkins enters the station and fires repeatedly at the floor.

Watkins: Come get some! WOOOOOOOOO!

Chris: Deni! Now!

Deni fires off some shots. Watkins is distracted by the shots, Chris appears in the floor hole and blasts Watkins at close range with a shotgun.

Chris: Deni.... Deni.

Chris climbs out of the hole and they hug.


INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Shots are still being fired in the lounge. Ray and the gunman begin to wrestle. Ray wins and punches the man repeatedly. Chris has come back to the house and tries to pull Ray off the man, Ray mistakenly hits Chris in the face.

Ray: I'm sorry!

Chris helps Ray over to a chair, Ray has taken a shot to the leg.

The injured gunman from the kitchen appears brandishing a pistol.


Gunman: You stabbed me... with a potato peeler??


Chris and Ray hold up their hands. He aims at Ray but he's shot in the back of the head by Dad who is approaching down the stairs.


Chris: You gonna be ok?

Dad nods.:


EXT. THE MILL

Chris is in a police car driving at speed. He approaches the mill and busts through the locked gates.


INT. THE MILL

The mill is dark, Chris is finding his way around using a torch. He finds Jay sitting.

Jay: Hey Chris.

Chris: Get up Jay.

Jay: Just a sec. Remember we used to play hide n seek up here?

Jay hits a metal saw which resonates making a metallic sound.


Jay: That was my favourite sound.

Chris: Get up!

Jay stands up and holds up his hands.

Jay: Look... Chris... just...

Jay hits a switch on the floor which opens a hatch. Chris falls into the hatch but hangs onto the saw which is swinging over it.

Jay hits more switches, powering up the machinery.

Jay: You wanna know what my new favourite sound's gonna be? The sound of you screaming like a little bitch.

Jay hits Chris in the stomach with a pole a few times. Chris grabs the pole and they both fall. Chris has hurt his leg. Chris stumbles off into the woods. Jay grabs an axe and goes after him, he swings the axe but misses and they both fall down a large earthy embankment. At the bottom they come to their senses and begin fighting again, Jay with his axe and Chris with a log he's ripped off a tree. Chris knocks Jay out by hitting him hard in the legs.

Chris: You're right Jay, this does change our relationship. This is my town, you're under arrest.


INT. WILD CHERRY CASINO

Chris and Ray are packing everything, the place is boarded up.


Chris: That oughta do it. WHAT are you doin?


Ray: Gettin some souvenirs, I'm gonna miss the place!

Chris: That's how it starts. Next you'll be accepting bribes, setting speed traps all over town, cuttin up trucks. Not to mention the cavity searches.

Ray: Speakin of which, do you think Jay's got a casino in the pen?

Chris: Could be.

Ray: Runnin the shower tower with the felons. He's probably blowin on somebody's dice right now.

They laugh as they drive off. The mill makes a horn noise.

Ray: That's lunch.

Chris: Let's go pick my old man and grab somethin to eat.

Ray: I'm with ya buddy.


Fade out:





